DM: You take the next one, and you go down about… again, it, it, it… it drops. It kind of drops down for a little bit, and then starts rising. It turns sharply left, and then sharply right, and then… opens up into a wider room—maybe, like, 40 or 50 feet across—like, almost a sort of… a bigger space, but with a low ceiling. Only, maybe, five or six feet high. So, like, it’s… it definitely feels low. Probably not more than five feet, so you have to crouch a little bit when you… when you start to come into the room.
Finnan: I don’t, but—
DM: Well, Finnan doesn’t, but… and so this room—the walls of this room are all ice. And you can see… two egg… two passages… well, actually, how… how long… how big does light go?
Finnan: 30-foot bright, 30-foot dim.
DM: Okay, so—
Finnan: 20-foot light, bright; 20-foot dim. So 40 feet total.
DM: Okay, so you can… when you walk out into the room, you can just barely make out—shadowy—that there’s a wall on the other side, and it looks like maybe there’s a darker spot, but it’s hard to actually tell what’s over there.
DM: Dividing the room in half… is a crack. Like, the floor—there’s, like, this crack in the floor that’s maybe 15 feet across, or 10 feet across, so it’s relatively wide. A crack in the floor. That… is… I mean, you can’t see into it from this angle. But all around the side of the crack, like, running along the whole length of the room on the crack, are these tendrils of ice that are, like… they look like ice from where you’re standing, but they’re sort of growing up almost like ferns, and they’re waving slightly in some sort of breeze. And I’m not sure who’s first, but whoever’s first into the room: it feels substantially warmer in here than the other rooms that you’ve been into. Like, it almost feels like there’s a warm breath of air coming up from this crack.
Ekko: Gotta get outta here, right?
Jrain: Yeah.
Justas: Are you trying to get out, or find the center, or… isn’t there something that lives in here that we’re meant to… find and—
Finnan: That’s… according to Kalima, that’s the only way out—is to find the…
Finnan: Stop Zypher’s… something.
Jrain: Beast, champion, something, something.
Eolo: Hmm…
Finnan: So can we walk into the… I mean, does the crack extend all the way to the entrance?
DM: It… no, no, no. The <crap>[crack|Likely ASR error] is going horizontally. Like, you’re… you can go up to the—
Finnan: Oh, okay.
DM: The room this way, right.
Eolo: Mmm…
Jrain: But we can’t cross the <crab criteria side>[crack to the other side|Likely ASR error; meaning inferred]. You can’t cross—wow. I mean… some of us can fight, yeah, yeah. Yeah.
DM: There is a… there is a challenge in crossing the crack to the other side.
Eolo: Get nervous.
Jrain: Does it, like, taper towards the walls, or is it… it’s just equally 15 feet wide everywhere?
DM: There’s, like, little bits of… like, as it goes under the… like, you can see there’s, like, some stone where it goes, like… into the wall, right? And there’s, like, this big stone—like, the wall seems to just be blocking the crack, right? It’s not causing the walls… We can see little bits of snow falling off the wall, like dusting down into the crack.
Eolo: Are there loose rocks or chunks of ice or anything lying around?
DM: There’s no loose rocks, but there’s plenty of snow and ice.
Eolo: Hmm. We’ll see.
Ekko: You’re gonna kick some, aren’t you?
DM: There’s plenty of snow and ice; there’s no loose rocks.
Eolo: We could.
Justas: Make a snowball and cast Light on it, and… ask, Eolo, wanna… drop this in and see how far it goes?
DM: So when you cast Light, Kalima’s light goes out, but that’s okay. Yeah.
Justas: Yeah.
Eolo: Eolo has the ability to telekinetically move objects around. The target must be a loose object that is Large or smaller, or a willing creature—transport up to 30 feet.
Eolo: <Oh, let me do it once per short rest.>[I can do it once per short rest.|Grammar]
Finnan: Well, if we’re gonna try to cross this, Finnan’s gonna look pointedly at the wings on the back of Ekko and Eolo.
Eolo: Yeah, I suppose I could… I could lift someone over in that way, instead of using it to just toss a chunk of ice. I mean, I do have hands—I could toss a chunk of ice. And he strolls up to within a few feet of the crack and… and lobs it in.
DM: As you get… as you come up, like, you notice the weaving bits of, like… what look like ferns, but seem to be made of ice. They get very still as you come close to them. And you can definitely feel this, like, warm air coming up through the crack. And as you throw the thing over… it has Light on it?
Finnan: Yeah.
DM: Okay, so it’s a snowball with Light. It disappears down the crack. You don’t… I mean, the light… goes out—
Eolo: You don’t hear anything. It seems to have failed to hit any sort of bottom, unfortunately.
DM: Or the bottom’s more than 60 feet down. 40 feet down, you would see— I guess you’d still see the light coming up.
Finnan: Light—yeah, you could see the light itself from quite a long distance.
DM: I guess it—no. After… after about… let’s see—after about… two or three seconds? You can see the light coming up for about two or three seconds, and then it stops.
Eolo: And I don’t hear anything.
DM: You don’t hear any sound. But the… the things on the side—the… the… there’s, like, a burst of warm air coming out of the crack, and the things on the side—like, the little ferny things—shudder very, very loudly, like, rapidly for a minute. And a wind starts to pick up, like there’s a swirling wind in the room that’s starting to sort of pick up some of the snow and blow it around in a little bit of a circle.
Eolo: I crouch down to look more closely at one of the little ice ferns. Does it look magical? Is it a creature? Or, like, a plant growth?
DM: I mean, it looks like a fern, but it appears to be made of solid ice, but is somehow flexible. So…
Jrain: DMs.
DM: Assumption is it has to be magical, right?
Eolo: So, okay—just not that you have to use this in D&D, but…
Finnan: An astronomer did an experiment that demonstrated that you can see a candle 1.5 miles away on a clear night.
DM: No, but the light stops. It, it, it—
Finnan: Oh, it’s still at the bottom.
DM: No, no, no, no, no, no. It went out. Like, it wasn’t… it wasn’t like it gradually got far—no. Sorry, I misunderstood what I was trying to say.
Finnan: Oh, yeah.
DM: After two seconds or so—you weren’t necessarily counting precisely—it went out.
Justas: Whether it’s dispelled or it’s entirely obscured by…
DM: Exactly.
Justas: Something.
DM: Exactly.
Justas: Alright, I’ll… Light back on, you know, something we’ve got it handed—
Jrain: There are two other passages. We don’t have to go across this one.
Finnan: I’m gonna just look over at Eolo like, “What’s the worst that’s gonna happen?”
Eolo: Exactly.
DM: You hear a sort of <fowl>[foul|Likely ASR error]… you hear sort of a howl on the wind. Like, there’s just this, like, howling. Like, this wind has picked up, and there’s now, like, a swirling wind blowing in almost a circle in this room. And you hear sort of a howl come on the wind.
Eolo: The sound originates—
Jrain: Ding.
Eolo: From within the room, or down the chasm—the crack—or somewhere else?
DM: Make a Perception check.
Justas: While he’s listening, I want to look carefully around on the ground. Are there any tracks or signs of passage or movement?
DM: Oh, wait—
Eolo: Am I not in Roll20? Oops.
Finnan: Just use D&D Beyond, it’s fine. Yeah, just use—
DM: D&D Beyond.
Eolo: Oh, okay. I got a 22.
DM: It… it sounds distant, but it’s very hard to place directionally, like, in a way that…
Finnan: Makes you a little bit uncomfortable. Like—
DM: It should be easier to figure out which… like, it’s clearly not coming from nearby, but it’s like… something feels wrong about it.
Eolo: I don’t know.
DM: That is strange.
DM: What were you saying, Schwartz? You were looking for tracks?
Justas: Anything, yeah—anything in the snow.
DM: There’s not really enough snow… there’s not like thick-packed snow. It’s, like, scattered, like… bits of snow that are now all being blown about by a wind. So there’s not a lot of snow to see tracks in. You can look at these little fern things around the edge, and they really don’t… there are no signs they’ve been disturbed. They don’t look broken or anything like that.
Eolo: Hmm.
Eolo: Eolo’s interested in picking one, actually.
DM: You could pick one.
Eolo: Eolo reaches out to pluck one off of the ground.
DM: It’s surprising… I mean, it’s cold when you grab it, right? And it’s… bending it, it’s like… it stiffens and cracks like ice. And you’re… it feels like you’re just holding an icicle once you break it.
Eolo: I try waving it around to see if it will come to life.
DM: Nothing happens. It’s like… it seems like ice.
Eolo: I give it a lick. Yeah, lengthy.
DM: Okay. It tastes like… it… it has a slight, like, metallic tang, but otherwise it tastes like— I mean, I guess you’ve probably licked icicles before—it doesn’t seem… I mean, it’s branchy.
Eolo: High surface area. It’ll melt quickly, probably, in this state.
DM: Yes?
Ekko: Eolo strikes me as the type of person that licks a lot of different types of things.
DM: Probably true.
Finnan: Go for it at Justas and ask if he’s got any rope in his pack.
Justas: Let’s see what made it.
Eolo: Hmm.
Justas: Yeah. I’ll pull out a coil—50 feet of rope. I’m traveling light, but I’ve got this. I’ve got blanket, tinderbox… not too much else.
Eolo: A minute.
Finnan: You’re welcome.
Justas: Toss it over, yeah.
Finnan: We’ll look at the… the two <Kenko>[kenku|Likely ASR error], and suggest that if we tie a rope around one of your legs—so you can’t fall endlessly down to the bottom of the chasm—maybe somebody flies across with some light and sees what’s on the other side.
Jrain: I mean, I could send Rolla to see what’s on the other side. They have darkvision.
Finnan: Oh, that’s also a good idea.
DM: Can Rolla talk to you, right?
Jrain: Yeah. <What good widow.>[With Goodwill.|Likely ASR error]
DM: <Dad?>[Yeah?|Likely ASR error]
Jrain: <Extreme be without a communication aspect.>[Except we don’t have a communication aspect.|Likely ASR error]
Finnan: Hmm… Rolla does not speak any languages.
DM: Yeah, I thought some… some beasts only understand you; they can’t communicate.
Finnan: But you… you have Speak with Animals. So all you need to do is spend 10 minutes to ritual-cast Speak with Animals.
Jrain: Okay, yes, that’s how it works.
DM: Okay. So you’re gonna take 10 minutes to ritual-cast Speak with Animals, and so none of the kenku are just gonna fly across the crack. I’m just double-checking.
Jrain: Neither of those.
Eolo: I’m getting a little antsy.
Ekko: This is fun.
DM: I mean, it’s only 10 feet wide. You can see the other side—there’s ground on the other side. You just can’t see very clearly what’s on… past the ground.
Ekko: Let’s do it!
Eolo: Eolo was thinking about trying to clear it without flying, actually.
DM: Jumping. Just—
Eolo: It’s a big jump, yeah. He backs up, tests the friction of the floor, so—
Ekko: I will impatiently just fly over.
DM: Okay.
Eolo: This makes Eolo really upset.
DM: As you… so—
Finnan: Nobody wants a rope?
DM: Thank you.
Finnan: Looking a little distraught.
DM: You fly across. There’s definitely a swirling wind here. I mean, it buffets you a little bit as you’re flying. And when you land on the other side, looking back: the snow’s starting to blow pretty heavy, right? Like, you can only vaguely make out— you can see the entrance where you came in, but it’s like… everybody’s kind of obscured slightly by snow, by swirling snow now, as this wind is picking up. But otherwise, you see… stone—square stone—like, passageways leading: one sort of straight across, and one at a right angle to the right.
Ekko: Is everybody within 60 feet of me? Just 10 feet over, right?
DM: Yes, everybody’s within—
Finnan: Yeah, everybody.
Ekko: So you hear Ekko’s voice in your mind saying, “It’s snowy on the other side, but… you… this works?”
Eolo: Eolo’s gonna go for an acrobatic leap across.
Ekko: And not fly.
DM: Okay.
Eolo: Not fly.
DM: You can, you can do that.
Ekko: That sucks.
Eolo: Yeah.
DM: I’m… when you jump, you can make a long—sorry, I’m just looking at… I just need to say: you can leap horizontally a number of feet up to your Strength score. So… Eolo has a 10 Strength. Now, that’s… that’s if you make a 10-foot—if you run for 10 feet.
Eolo: But Eolo has—
DM: You could… you could clear it.
Eolo: Oh, I thought it was more than 10 feet wide.
DM: It’s… I mean… tell you what: it’s, like, right at the edge. You might have to make a check to, like, get your <bat>[footing|Likely ASR error]—you know, it might be six inches past. It’s about 10 feet wide. You don’t have a… you don’t have a laser finder measurer, right? Like, it’s right on the edge.
Eolo: What Eolo has is 100% confidence in his ability to make this <job>[jump|Likely ASR error]. Damn.
DM: There you go. Make a DEX—so you start to run towards it—make a DEX check.
Eolo: Wait, oh, not an Acrobatics check? Okay.
DM: It could be Acrobatics, if you want—proficiency. You can have proficiency if you have Acrobatics.
Eolo: I rolled an 8.
DM: You roll an 8. Well, the floor’s quite icy. You slip. Before you even get to the jump, you slip on the icy floor—you fall prone. Make a DEX save.
Eolo: Oh my god. 19.
DM: Okay. You go sliding towards the edge of this thing. You crash through the little ferns, and you catch yourself before you fall into the chasm—into the crack—lying on the side.
Eolo: Totally meant for that—investigating the crack.
Finnan: I will look at Eolo and say, “You know you have wings, right?”
DM: Eolo, as you’re lying here, like, a hot breath comes—like, a hot burst of air comes flying up. And then… it’s like, as it… as it comes out of this, like, wet, moist air— as it’s coming out of this crack—it, like… it condenses and turns to, like, icy snow, right? And, like, all of a sudden… the room… the room is, like—there’s a much denser snow cloud in the room, all of a sudden. You could probably only see about 20 feet at this point.
Eolo: Is it, like, something breathing?
Jrain: I’m getting that vibe!
Finnan: It’s getting more—
Jrain: You mentioned that we could just turn around and leave.
Finnan: Well, there’s—there’s—
DM: Two passageways here.
Finnan: I think we should keep exploring until we hit a dead end. Like, how she says, “Nope, we can’t leave…” This is a maze, right? We gotta explore every—rude, I mean—
Jrain: There were two passageways we didn’t explore back there that had— I know!
Finnan: We haven’t hit a dead end yet. Then we retrace our path.
Eolo: Right. So Eolo flies across.
Finnan: Finnan’s gonna just sigh.
DM: Okay.
Eolo: Fascinating.
Finnan: I’ll… I’ll just speak in… specifically in Eolo’s mind: “Little help.”
Eolo: Oh, well, I can… I can lift…
Finnan: One across.
Eolo: With telekinesis.
Finnan: You’re a Medium creature.
Justas: Just to see—
Finnan: Like a mount. I can ride you like a mount. I’m a Small creature.
DM: You can also just ride on your back.
Finnan: Back.
DM: Oh.
Eolo: Oh, I didn’t realize that. You guys are Small—okay. Right. Eolo flies back.
Finnan: The more times we cross, the snowier it’s gonna get in here, I believe. So let’s be slightly organized about this. Justas could probably jump it, but we’re gonna have to carry Kalima, and… possibly Jrain across.
Eolo: It’s—watch out, Justas, it’s a little slippery.
Justas: Here, why don’t I toss a rope across? Hold tight. I’ll keep this end, and if I don’t make the jump, just, you know, don’t let me fall down.
Jrain: Clear.
DM: Oh, you’re just… taking a running jump.
Justas: Yeah, yes.
DM: Alright, make a DEX check.
Justas: DEX, you say?
DM: DEX.
Justas: A check of some kind… Hmm. I want to make the case that this is an Athletics check, rather than a DEX check.
DM: The jumping part you’re fine on. It’s not… it’s the running part that’s tricky.
Justas: Yeah, yeah, exactly. It’s the… mmm. And make a DEX check. Here we go.
DM: I mean, you could not run. It’s definitely, like, you feel the ground. If you want to try and… you could. You could do a standing jump. Then you don’t have to make a DEX check, and you could make a Strength check instead—to try and power your way across from standing without running.
Justas: I think… so I’ll come up to the edge, I’ll test the ground, I’ll feel back and forth. I’ll say, “I don’t… I don’t think I can run this.” So I’ll come to the edge, I’ll, you know, tie one end of the rope around me and look across. Who’s got me on the other side?
Jrain: Who’s on the other side yet? I’ve lost track.
DM: I can’t—
Finnan: I’m gonna give Justas a look. Justas being, like, a six-foot-tall human wearing heavy armor— and look at the rest of us. “Why don’t you wait for… all of us. I think we need about a four-to-one ratio here.”
Justas: I think this makes sense. I’m gonna say: I feel obliged to use the die roll that I rolled—which was a 1—under any circumstances. So… so I think the question is: can all of you hold probably 250 pounds+ of Justas, like… falling into a crack immediately?
Eolo: Hmm. My bones are literally hollow, so…
DM: Your Strength is very low across the rest of you.
Eolo: Hmm…
Finnan: Yeah, that’s why we need four of us.
DM: Yep.
Justas: Alright, so with the four of you on the other end holding the rope, Justas comes right to the edge.
DM: Hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on. At the moment, the two kenku are on the far side. Kalima, Jrain, Justas, and Finnan are on the near side. Justas walked up to the thing and is thinking about trying to jump across, and Finnan said, “Why don’t you wait until there’s all of us on one side?” So are the kenku flying back? Or is everybody crossing?
Finnan: I’m not trying to jump this. There’s no way my three-foot self is gonna make it. I’m waiting for a kenku to fly me across, and I think Kalima’s gonna have to be flown across, too. I don’t know what Jrain wants to do.
Jrain: I’m perfectly happy to leap if I’m too hefty for a ride. I can handle that. I can give that a shot myself.
Eolo: Well, Eolo comes back over with a flap.
Eolo: Okay, who wants to ride over first? Finnan?
Finnan: Yeah. I’m gonna jump on your back—like a piggyback ride.
Eolo: Hold on tight. We’re gonna try the barrel roll. Just kidding.
DM: So the… the… the wind at this point has really… like, you hear, like, screech as the wind is, like, picking up strongly at this point. Like, there’s, like, this… like, you… you could fly, but, like, you feel buffeted by the wind, right? Like, if you… you need to fly—like, if you tried to fly fast, it would… it would probably be difficult, right? It’s like flying— it’s like the air is now difficult terrain. And the snow is… is definitely… is definitely swirling stronger. Like, the visibility’s just… getting worse.
Eolo: How are we having an indoor storm here? This is very odd. So, Eolo flies Finnan across.
DM: Okay, yeah, that’s not a problem. Kalima’s looking very nervous, and is, like, clinging to Justas.
Jrain: So—
DM: “Wait, we should go back,” she says. “This isn’t safe.”
Jrain: I… I’m getting that vibe from her, even though I don’t speak her language. Given the difficult weather conditions, I’m not sure this is the time for unassisted athleticism. If I had the… if I used the capacity to levitate, would I be of any use in helping Kalima across? Would that—
DM: I mean, the wind is blowing strong enough that if you levitated, you’d probably get pushed across.
Jrain: So I was sort of hoping that maybe a kenku who was flying across could help me achieve some directionality.
DM: A kenku could push you.
Jrain: But would I provide any… would my spell provide enough lift to help Kalima to be airborne as well? Like, if a kenku was flying and I was levitating, could we sort of divide up her weight between us?
DM: You could probably manage that, yeah. If a kenku was sort of holding half of her and you were… like, two people could easily carry her—one holding her shoulders, one holding her legs.
Jrain: So we split up… we split up the weight, and the kenku provides the direction with their actual scale.
DM: What?
Jrain: <lying.>[Flying.|Likely ASR error]
DM: Yeah. Alright. You could do that.
Jrain: I’m gonna… I’m gonna expend a use—the power of my cloak—to levitate to get across this, that way I can lend Kalima a hand.
DM: Okay.
Jrain: <Hong>[Ekko|Likely ASR error]—are you still on our side of the pit? Did you come back? I forget who’s on which.
DM: I mean, the kenku could fly back in… like, it’s… it’s… the wind is blowing, but it’s not—
Jrain: But we’re… we’re trying to minimize the trips across, because it’s making the wind worse, so—
Ekko: We’re going back, yeah. I can just fly back over.
Jrain: Thank you.
DM: I appreciate it.
DM: Now, everybody’s across except Justas.
Jrain: So now we all hold the rope. Justas tries for his leap, right?
Jrain: Before—
Finnan: Hmm.
Eolo: No, no, no.
Finnan: Nobody’s got, like, a spike or anything.
Eolo: Oh, to tie the rope.
Finnan: Man, we really need Seeker on this adventure. Performance of Creation—you’ve got everything you need.
Eolo: Justas is… a willing creature. So I—
Finnan: Telekinetically just—
DM: Can I just tell him?
Eolo: <Tim McCross.>[To move him across.|Likely ASR error; meaning inferred]
DM: Yes, you could.
Eolo: But I, I think—
Justas: Something my size, you can telekin—neat?
Eolo: Yes. Yeah. You’re about to jump, aren’t you?
Justas: Yeah. I mean, I’m… I’m happy to be interrupted as I’m—
DM: Gathering myself for my little standing long jump here.
Eolo: I’m just watching.
Justas: I think the failure is that Justas does not make it even one foot. Like, the failure is that the feet just go out immediately under him pushing off, and he just goes directly downwards.
DM: Okay.
Jrain: Hey, hold on a second. No, I intervened.
Eolo: Telekinesis.
Jrain: Oh, no, no—
DM: What do you do?
Jrain: Can I get Justas’s attention? I think I’m just gonna cast the 1st-level spell Jump.
Justas: I can make it. This is not a difficult— I mean—
DM: Justas is fairly confident in his strength.
Finnan: Yeah.
Justas: I’ve jumped bigger chasms than this in my day.
Eolo: Here—
DM: Usually with a running start, but—
Eolo: But I know how slippery it is over there, having just fallen on my face, so I will ready my telekinesis action so that when—okay.
DM: So it just doesn’t—
DM: Justas hits the… misses… misses the step on his, sort of, leap, trying to just be too powerful. Like, mistimes the step, and just, like, steps off the side of the… of the chasm accidentally, right? Like… fall down. You are holding the rope, so—
Justas: It’s tied to me, yeah.
DM: The rope is tied to you, and they’re on the other side, so you fall and you start swinging across, right? Like, your weight starts taking you across. You feel, like, a heat. Like, you’re in—let’s see—the rope’s 50 feet of rope?
Justas: Yeah, but—
Jrain: We’re holding a lot.
DM: Nice.
Justas: <black.>[Okay.|Likely ASR error]
DM: Like, 15 feet of slack, so you… you swing down 15 feet. You’re in pitch blackness when you go down 15 feet. Like, you can’t see above you.
Eolo: So, so I’m—
DM: And you feel like hot air all around you.
Finnan: I will—
Justas: Blackness because of the mechanics of the Light spell, or pitch blackness because something else is going on?
DM: Pitch blackness because all of a sudden, Justas cannot see a thing. It’s like the lights went out.
Eolo: So I’m—
Finnan: Yeah, well—
Eolo: Using my telekinesis to pull him back up.
DM: You guys can still see him. He just… he just can’t see.
Finnan: I will… I will—Silent Speech: “Justas, everything okay?”
DM: I mean, this all takes about… maybe… I don’t know. You hit the far side. It’s… there’s, like… it’s, like, very rough and has sharp ice. You actually take 2 points of damage as you hit the far side. And the rope starts to slip. I mean, you guys are not… doing a great job at keeping him from falling.
Justas: I mean, I’ll smash the spiky end of the battleaxe into the wall to stop my descent.
DM: Yeah, I mean, you’re not descending rapidly. It’s not like… it’s like you feel you jumped out, but you can’t see anything. But you feel yourself fall down one or two sides. You… you, by feel, smash the battleaxe into the wall, and you kind of get a decent hold.
Jrain: Isn’t Eolo also yanking on him?
DM: Are you <talcan eating>[telekinesing|Likely ASR error] him?
Eolo: Yet.
DM: Well, if you do, he just comes flying up.
Finnan: Yep.
Eolo: Yep. He just comes flying back, straight up in the air.
Finnan: Okay.
Justas: Does my sight come back as soon as I cross the—yep. Okay. Justas brushes himself off. I… I probably should have said yes to that Jump spell. In fairness, too, this is not the first time this same thing has happened to me. As soon as I went in, though—did the lights go out for all of you? Like, as soon as I went in there, I couldn’t see a thing. It’s weird.
Eolo: That is—
DM: Two points of damage.
Jrain: I’m glad that you… I’m glad that you made it past that with only a momentary loss of vision. Let’s…
Jrain: Let’s run down some tunnel.
Finnan: There’s one to the right, and one straight ahead.
DM: Yep.
Finnan: Let’s go to the one to the right. Do I hear the dripping sound?
DM: Nope.
Justas: Is there a breeze?
DM: I’ll… it’s a… I mean, there’s a gusty wind. It’s probably 20-mile-an-hour winds.
Finnan: Okay.
Jrain: Behind us?
DM: Wow.
Jrain: Them?
DM: Just swirling. It’s hard to… I mean, they’re not coming in any one direction. They keep changing; they keep shifting, right? So, like, sometimes they’re blowing from behind you, sometimes from in front of you. And the wind is actually… is actually loud enough that it’s hard… I mean, you can hear each other talk, but, like, you could never hear— the wind has picked up enough, and it’s howling enough, that that dripping sound? You would never be able to hear.
Finnan: Right.
Jrain: Toward the door that we’re planning to head towards—does it seem like a continuation of that storm, or, like, a way out of it?
DM: I mean, you can barely see the two exits. You can go into one of them.
Jrain: That’s what I’m saying. Let’s go to the threshold of the one on the right.
DM: I mean, the wind is coming just as strongly from up—like, as you step into the threshold, there’s, like, a burst of a snowy gust that’s blowing up the <quarter>[corridor|Likely ASR error] towards you.
Jrain: This doesn’t seem to be getting any better—this weather condition that we’re having locally.
DM: Do you want to quickly try the other—
Jrain: Thing and see if the weather is different in the other tunnel before we go too far down this blizzard?
Eolo: I suppose so.
Finnan: Sure.
DM: When you turn around, that passageway’s not there.
Jrain: Okay.
DM: There is one on the wall directly across from you, though, as you sort of… so, like, you turned to the right, you started… you started down the path. It was howling wind. You turned around, came back, and saw the one that was originally directly across is gone. But there’s… seems to be an opening in the wall directly across from the one that—on the right—that’s to the left of your… where you crossed now.
Jrain: Okay.
DM: Turn back to the original one, or go down the new one?
Jrain: A new one?
Finnan: I just throw a snowball down the new one, or hand a snowball to somebody who’s good at throwing things.
DM: I mean—
Finnan: Jrain.
DM: It… disappears into the snow.
Finnan: Right? You can’t see that far.
Eolo: Yeah.
DM: Visibility’s probably only about 30 feet at this point.
