Finnan: So let’s continue… down this passageway.
DM: You continue down the passageway for, I mean, the… the…
DM: The… storm is pretty… pretty tough at the moment, right? Like, as you go… you’re… it’s difficult to move. It’s not really gotten… maybe it’s gotten a tiny bit better, right, as you leave this… this corpse behind. But it’s definitely… there are strong gusts of wind. The… the… the… you hear, like, as you’re walking, you hear, like, a crack of ice in, like, a boom. You can’t pinpoint it—like, just in the distance, right? Like… you… you know, the… you can only see about 20 feet, 30 feet—complete whiteout conditions beyond 30 feet. You can make out dim shapes 20 feet away. You—walking, like I said, like, as you walk, the ice is forming, like, under your feet. It almost seems to be trying to trip you. If you… walk more than half speed, it’s difficult. Hard to move. But you make your way down. There’s… as you’re walking down this corridor, there are two passageways that go off on the left or right.
DM: Like, just gaps in the darkness.
Finnan: And it continues beyond that.
DM: 80 straight, yeah.
Finnan: Okay. Keep walking.
DM: It… you hit a dead end as you keep walking.
DM: It’s just black stone in front. It almost comes out of nowhere—like, you’re walking along, you don’t even think you saw it, and then all of a sudden, whoever’s in the front is, like, two inches from the rock. You’re like, “Wait, did I…?” It’s a little puzzling where it came from.
Finnan: Left or right. It’s all just guessing at this point, so…
Justas: Right.
Jrain: Ending. Yeah, we’ve been trending right over there.
Finnan: Okay.
Justas: Stay with it.
Eolo: Tim, are you drawing a map?
Finnan: I am.
Eolo: Give up on it. Oh, you had it—wow.
DM: I’m curious what your map looks like.
Finnan: Well, it’s obviously not a real physical place, because there’s several—
DM: Impossible.
Finnan: —impossible turns.
DM: Wow.
Eolo: I’m gonna pin you.
DM: Yeah?
Eolo: Oh, nice.
DM: That’s pretty good. I mean, yes, there are… you have gone through several impossible turns.
Finnan: So, right—meaning when we’re facing back towards the… chamber, the one on the right; so the one on the left as we came.
DM: Okay. As you turn down that—as you turn into that passageway, like, you… you hear a… like, just as you… whoever’s in front—like, Jrain—as you, like, take two steps, you hear, like, a… a boom. Like, almost like… it sounds like a very, very, very, very, very quiet sonic boom. Like, just a… like a… like a… a burst of air, like, bursting out from somewhere just ahead.
DM: But it’s loud enough to be heard over the wind. This is a fairly wide corridor; it’s maybe 15 feet, like… you are in a narrower corridor, but this one’s maybe 15 feet wide.
DM: Dope. Do you keep walking?
Finnan: Yeah, I don’t see what else to do.
DM: As you go another maybe 10 feet, you can… there’s, like, you hear a louder boom in front of you. And it… damn… like, you could… you can almost… you can almost see in the… in the air, like…
DM: The boom is, like, rippling. It’s, like, pushing the snow, right? And, like, again, it almost… it’s like you can almost see it in front of you. Like a… like a… every five or six seconds, like, a booming… damn. I mean, it doesn’t… there’s nothing you can physically see, but it’s like, when it booms, you can see the air rippling and the snow blowing.
Jrain: It’s not hurting our ears yet or anything?
DM: No, it’s not dangerous, but it’s, like, it’s pretty close to you. Walking through it feels like you can feel it push against you. Like, if you went towards it—like, if you were standing… if you were standing any closer, it would probably potentially knock you down.
Finnan: And it’s like… regular pulses, or…
DM: Yeah.
Finnan: Let’s just time it and run through it. One at a time, after each boom. See what happens.
DM: Yeah? It’s… if you just… boom—I mean, it’s about four seconds between each one.
Jrain: It booms, we run; it booms, we run.
DM: The only tricky bit is, as you start to run—who’s going first? Jrain?
Jrain: I will.
DM: Make a Dex check.
Jrain: Remember, this whole difficult terrain thing—I have some assistance with.
DM: But, yes. Oh, yes, you do.
DM: You don’t—okay, next check.
Jrain: Okay.
DM: You… you’re… you can, like… your feet are just only lightly touching down on the ice. You’re fine.
Finnan: I will ask the two kenku if they can pick up and fly with Kalima, because I’m worried what happens if she slips. And the two of them together should be able to carry her.
DM: Yeah, I mean, the winds… the wind’s pretty strong. You feel like, yes, you could… you could definitely carry her, but you’re not sure… like, as you, like, flex your wings and fly up, you’re being buffeted by the wind. You might get… you might… it’s tough to… it’s not… flying quickly, you would have to make a Strength check to fly through here carrying somebody. Not a particularly difficult one, but it’s not guaranteed success. The winds are buffeting you.
DM: Doesn’t mean you shouldn’t do it. I don’t know what your Strengths are. Oh, Ekko maybe has a little trouble with Strength.
DM: Kong’s sleeping, but—
Finnan: We don’t have a kenku at the moment.
Jrain: Hello, Justas!
Justas: Whoever goes first, take the rope. I feel like the rope… the rope is a good… is a good solution.
Jrain: I took the rope. I took the rope and I made it through one boom. Now I’m just waiting for you guys to time your next—
Finnan: I mean, I’m hap—perfectly happy to… run. I’m just worried about—
DM: Kalima?
Finnan: Kalima.
Justas: Let’s get her through first, yeah.
Justas: Can the two fly her down? What’s that?
Jrain: Yeah, why don’t we roll as a party—somebody roll a Strength check for the kenku?
DM: So I’m gonna make a Strength check for each of the kenku.
Finnan: Eolo rolled a 13.
DM: Eolo is fine.
Finnan: Ekko rolled a 1.
DM: Oh, a 1’s not so good—especially with… wait, rolled a 1?
Finnan: Well, it’s a minus one, so…
DM: Okay, okay.
Finnan: Rather, two, so—
DM: Rolled a 2. I was like, “Wow, Ekko got a 0?”
DM: Let me look at my notes. Ekko—
DM: —is just hit by this burst of… let’s see…
DM: Ekko is blown directly backwards 10 feet. So… you kinda… lose grip on—so… yeah. You probably dropped Kalima. As the wind… you’re carrying her together, the two of you, as the wind hits, Ekko just completely loses control and is blown backwards. Kalima falls to the ground and… hits badly. She crawls—I mean, she’s past the boom—but is lying, sort of whimpering on the ground, looking at the kenku in a fresh terror.
Jrain: I can see her, because she’s come through past the boom.
DM: The boom isn’t… the boom isn’t dark; it’s air. It actually clears the snow—it’s easier to see through than anywhere else.
Jrain: Alright, I go to—
Finnan: Calling?
Jrain: —aid.
Finnan: I will run through as… as—
DM: Make a Dex check.
Finnan: 14.
DM: You’re fine.
Jrain: I tell—oh, you could see it happen.
DM: Yeah, yeah, you saw her fall.
Jrain: Yeah, so—
Justas: Is she injured? Or just… bruised?
Jrain: I’m seeking a more expert opinion than my own while I provide moral support.
Finnan: I’ll look at her.
DM: Yeah… she took damage. I mean, she’s okay—she’s not dead, or she’s not dying or anything—but she, like, badly bruised a rib… she probably has a cracked rib or something like that. She… she looks in pain.
Justas: I’ll… I’ll heal you when I get to the other side there.
DM: Okay. That calms her down a bit.
Finnan: Do it, Justas.
Justas: Alright, you got the rope?
Jrain: We still got it—into the rope.
Justas: Alright. Alright. It’s not the first time I’ve been in this situation. Mike, I need an Acrobatics check? How about… or a Dex check? How about… how about an Athletics check, to power my way steadily over uneven terrain—
DM: Using my formidable strength. I mean, you could try and just walk slowly and power your way through the wind, even if you get buffeted.
Justas: Yes, I will do that.
DM: Sure, make an Athletics check. That’s Strength. Do you have any… I don’t know if you have any reason to be proficient, but certainly Strength.
Justas: Yeah, I don’t. So that’s a 14 altogether.
DM: What was my reaction to say? Okay, yeah, that’s okay. You… you sort of… you… you make it through; you’re on the other side. Just keep going.
Finnan: Yup.
DM: Seems to be booming there.
Justas: Oh, I’ll Cure Wounds her, though.
DM: Okay.
Jrain: We just—
Justas: It’s minor, if the—
DM: Yeah, yeah, yep, yep. Yep.
DM: As you go down the corridor, it actually… you see it branches into… it, like… it… it comes to a stop in, like, an icy, like… snow. You’re back on snow now instead of stone. And there’s, like, seven passageways, like, all sort of only two and a half feet wide, weeding out of this snowy… kind of, again, like, another finger. Two of them, like, loop back—sort of almost going back the way you came. It looks much more twisty all of a sudden.
Jrain: The right!
Justas: Yep—rightmost. That’s—
Finnan: Yeah, I mean—
DM: You take the rightmost, and you go, and it’s… and it’s… it’s turning. And you come out into another room. It kind of curves, and you curve for a few minutes. You come out into… a room? Looks maybe similar, but there’s only five passages out.
Justas: In a maze of twisting little passages all alike?
DM: It could have been twisted back around. Like, you’re not sure—maybe you came back in and two of the passages disappeared. It’s quite hard to tell.
Jrain: I mean, what I have to do is we’re disappearing and… go ahead.
Finnan: Sorry, you first.
Justas: I’ll write— I’ll pull out a sheet of paper, I’ll write on the sheet of paper “5 passages,” and I’ll put it on the floor under enough snow so that it’s not gonna blow away.
DM: Okay.
Finnan: Yeah.
DM: You came out on the second one. So, like, you came out… like, on the hand—you came out on this one.
Jrain: Hmm.
DM: Er, sorry, this one. So, like, one to the—there’s one more to the right of you when you come out.
Finnan: Go there.
DM: You go down—so you go to the one that’s to the right. So there’s three to your left and one to your right. But you’re facing the opposite direction as the other—like, there’s also—
Finnan: Just keep going to the right.
DM: Okay, you go to the right. You go—hold on, I’m just trying to… you came out, you go to the right—there was one to… wait, did I say that right? There was one to your left. I might have said that wrong. There was one to your left and three to your right, and one straight ahead when you came out.
Finnan: No, you didn’t say that.
DM: Sorry.
Finnan: Three to your left?
DM: One to your left, three to your right—I got it back—and one straight ahead.
Finnan: Okay, well, we just go to the furthest rightmost one.
DM: You go to the furthest rightmost one. Okay. So, you go along to… you go to the furthest rightmost one, you go down… again, it’s very twisty. It curves. It curves sharply. And you come out again—now you come out in a room that has two passageways to your left, one passageway to your right, and one straight ahead. The snow is blowing quite… it’s… I mean, it’s… you curved… when you went down the passageway to the right, you curved sharply… I don’t know if you’re quite seeing it, right? It’s like… it’s like a hand, right? You came up on one of them, you went down to go to the rightmost, and it curved sharply to the right as you went down it. But when you come back into another room now, with one passageway to your right, and two to your left, and one straight ahead… there’s, like, as you walk out into the passageway, there’s, like, this huge gust of, like—there’s just snow. You can only see maybe two feet in front of you. And you see… you see a shape. Or two shapes—maybe three—it’s really hard to tell how many there are. Like shadows, almost snow-shadows, like, peeling off the wall and, like, flying towards you. Like, they have, like— they’re made of, like… sinew. Like, there’s, like… they’re sort of humanoid forms. They seem to mostly be made of wind, and maybe some, like, bone and leather, held together by swirling wind. They have, like, sort of heads, and their arms are, like—look like they’re… you can, like, see, like, knife edges, like, on their arms.
Jrain: Turn around rapidly and go some other direction? It’s not through the—
DM: Back the way you—so you came out again… you came out of a passageway. The wind creatures are sweeping—there’s four of them, or three… three or four, you can’t really tell—are sweeping across. There’s one passageway to your right, two to your left, and one straight ahead.
Finnan: Yeah, just immediately turn to the right and run down that passageway as quickly as we can.
DM: Okay.
Jrain: Well, staying together is—
DM: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
DM: You go back down the passageway. You come back—again, you go around. You come back into another one of these rooms, with one passageway to your right, and one to your left—the one you came through—and one straight ahead. And you see about… six of these creatures now blowing through the… the room.
Jrain: Anyone want to try for eight? Should we just bite the darn things?
DM: There’s one to your right, one to your left, and one straight ahead.
Justas: Straight ahead. Why not?
Finnan: Then we have to run through the… wind.
Justas: Hmm.
Jrain: We maybe take some of them down on our way.
Finnan: I mean… I suggest we retreat into the corridor a little bit. Like, how long are these passageways in between rooms? How long does it take us to walk?
DM: Two or three minutes.
Finnan: I’m gonna—
DM: Pretty slow. It’s probably only… 100, 200 feet.
Finnan: They’re a backup of—
DM: Sharply curving. Like, they definitely circ… feel arced as you walk through them.
Finnan: I will… I will get—like, take my… my quill and ink, or take my ink pot out and just, like, make an ink splotch on the wall. Okay. And then, let’s just… let’s just go back and see—
DM: Like, back the way you came?
Finnan: Back the way we came, and see if we come into the same room with the same number of creatures, or fewer creatures.
Jrain: Roar.
DM: Okay.
Finnan: Or more creatures.
DM: You go back the way you came, and you come out—like, you just… you walk down the passageway again, the wind is blowing, you come out, there’s… there’s, like—
Finnan: Looking out into the room. We’re not, like—
DM: None.
Finnan: —into it.
DM: You do see your ink splotch on the wall. There’s… when you come out, there are—
Finnan: You mean both ends of this passageway are the same?
DM: Yes. Well, no, no, no—they’re next to each other. You went down, you kept going until you came back. You looped around.
Finnan: Oh, okay. The room is the same every time.
DM: The room is the same.
Finnan: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
DM: But now there’s only… there’s only the… there’s only the two passageways and the one in the back. And the… as you, like, see, the storm has gotten… the storm has gotten quite, quite violent.
Finnan: Can we see if there’s any creatures?
DM: The creatures seem to… oh, that is—that you don’t see. I mean, you could… you… you don’t see any from here. They seem to have— you don’t… you seem to… are you going out into the room, or are you just standing in the—
Finnan: Well, Finnan’s not going out into the room. I don’t know what everybody else is doing.
Jrain: Let’s talk about what we’re doing, is what we’re doing.
DM: You can only see about 10 feet into the room, and the creatures were sort of made of wind. It’s kind of hard to tell if they’re there.
Finnan: Right. But how many passageways are out of this room now? Just one?
DM: You think there’s just one to your left, and one to your right, and one across.
Justas: Maybe we have one more loop to go through until… the single passage forward remains?
Finnan: Let’s just go… go back through the loop one more time. Go to our right one more time.
DM: So you go to your right one more time, and you come back into the room, and there’s no passageways to your left. And there’s just one passageway across.
Justas: Awesome, let’s do it. What will it take to get there?
DM: If you creep through the room.
Finnan: Jrain, do you have, like, Pass Without Trace? Or Ekko? Do one of you have… Pass Without Trace.
Eolo: I don’t need it.
Finnan: You do, Eolo?
Eolo: I’m so stealthy, you know?
Jrain: I do have Pass Without Trace.
Finnan: I think this is the time to see if we can creep past without—
DM: Anybody noticing.
Jrain: All right. Sure enough—
Finnan: And I will lean… over to… Justas, and tell him an encouraging story about… great, clanky warriors who manage to be stealthy, and give them a Bardic Inspiration.
DM: And that’s why they try to give you a plus 10.
Jrain: Yep.
DM: Okay. So you’re gonna try and… try and creep—
Finnan: Along the side of the wall. Like, keeping to the left or right—it doesn’t matter—but keeping to one side, basically. Moving as quietly and stealthily as we can.
DM: Okay, roll Stealth! With +10.
Justas: But also with disadvantage for me.
DM: Yep. But you do get a +10 on both.
Finnan: 14 for me.
Jrain: 31 for me.
Eolo: I rolled a 25.
DM: 14 for me…
Justas: Plus, what’s Bardic Inspiration again?
Finnan: Well, let’s see what you… whether you… don’t use it unless you fail.
DM: Yeah, you only use Bardic if you fail. Kai, you with us?
Eolo: He’s being extremely stealthy.
Justas: That’s how stealthy he is.
DM: 70-year-old stealth for Kong.
Finnan: 29 for Ekko.
DM: You see… I mean, it’s… it’s… it’s tricky to… luckily, you’re trying to move slowly, because you can barely see, and you can barely walk, right? You’re, like, can barely move more than… you know, the wind is, like, howling. You can… you can… you can see, like, as you step under your feet, like, sometimes it just won’t be ground. It’ll just be, like, snow, or, like… it’s, like, almost trying to trip you. But you all manage to sneak out through the other side. And as you come out into this other corridor, the… the wind kinda calms down a little bit. Like, it’s not at all calm. But you… you get… you sort of… all of a sudden, you could see for… for… 15 feet instead of… or 20 feet instead of 10 feet, right? Like, as you… as you come out into this…
Finnan: Sort of wide, icy corridor, but… do we still see the booming… up ahead?
DM: The booming is still in front of… yes, it is up ahead. You can hear it up ahead.
Finnan: So maybe that was all just a dead end? And I’ll say—
Justas: Well, now we know it.
Finnan: I mean, let’s just keep going. We have no… no other thing to do. See if we can just… run through the booming again? Maybe… Justas, maybe you want to carry… I don’t think… yeah. I don’t think Kalima’s gonna trust the kenku again, so—
DM: No.
Justas: No, we’ll… we’ll power through.
Finnan: Okay. I’ll go ahead and just try to run through again. It’s 15—
DM: Okay.
Eolo: Wait, what’s happening?
DM: You got back to… you went in a loop, and you got back to the spot where the air is just booming in the air.
Eolo: Hmm.
Jrain: So I just rushed past it again. Do I need to check?
DM: No.
Justas: Alright, so—
Jrain: Your secure— I brought your security rope, Justas.
Justas: Thank you, I appreciate that. I’ll go through again also with Kalima this time.
DM: Yeah, okay, make—did you make a Strength check?
Justas: Yeah, that’s an 11.
DM: That’s good enough.
Justas: Darn—
Finnan: He’s still Bardic. You need it.
