DM: Sorry, I’m just trying to remember how to share my audio. I don’t mean to stop. I don’t share my screen.
Finnan: It’s under Advanced.
DM: Yeah, yeah, yeah, I got it. Computer audio.
DM: Okay. Can you hear that? Yep, yep. Alright. South.
DM: Where we left off last time: the… the intrepid (or accidental) Chasm Explorers were recovering from your battle with the… icebound wolves and their… and their various minions. And had just, sort of, learned something about each other, and… discovered a… the… pathway into this labyrinth—so-called Zeyfa’s Labyrinth. A mysterious place. Somewhere on Taelgar or off it, you’re not quite sure. But that Kalima, the… woman who is trapped here with you, is terrified of. But with some coaxing from Justas and Finnan, she seems willing—or at least… able to… she seems willing to venture with you into this… into this labyrinth.
DM: So, as we begin: you’re peering down from an icy bridge into a… room—an entrance room of some sort—that the bridge just… it’s open to the sky, but the sky is a stormy white cloud that you can’t see through. And as you look down into the labyrinth, it’s like there’s piles of snow. The ground is just ice, with snow piles, and there’s piles of snow on the walls, and there are four passageways leading out of it. Kind of… two in the sort of… well, you don’t know which way is east or west, but kind of two in one way and two in the other way. And it’s about a six-foot or eight-foot drop. It’s not that far. It’s like you’re in an open… it’s open to the sky, and then the passageways are almost like tunnels through the snow.
Finnan: How big is this chamber that we dropped down into?
DM: You’re on a platform. Remember? So you’re standing—oh, you… you haven’t dropped down in yet. You’re at the bridge that leads in.
Finnan: I know.
DM: Looking down: it’s like… 10… it’s not big. It’s 10–15 feet, irregular oval, across. Are you gonna try and map this?
Ekko: Kind of what?
DM: Tim’s mapping this. It’s gonna be interesting.
DM: That’s actually fascinating. So… as we begin…
DM: You peer down into it. I guess there’s the light from Kalima’s… rock that’s glowing with the blessing of Rommel the Glacier King, and I think Finnan also maybe has a light spell up. You’ve all short-rested, so I think everybody dealt with that.
Finnan: Yep.
DM: Oh, and, and… Kong. Ekko’s… magic item. So it’s an amulet that attunes you to the… to the sort of energy of the beast you’re becoming. Anytime you become a large beast, you get the Jump spell, so you can jump 30 feet. And anytime you become a teeny beast, you get advantage on Stealth checks.
Ekko: Mmm… okay.
DM: So just keep that in mind. It enhances the sort of natural stealthiness of a small beast, or the natural strength of a large beast.
Ekko: Love it.
DM: So, as we begin… you’re peering down into this room.
DM: Maybe everybody could… I don’t want to start with, like, full descriptions, but maybe just to remind us what everybody’s characters are like? Like, just one… the item that’s most important to you, or the facet of your mood that’s most prominent. So, just, like, one sentence about what your character is focused on in the moment.
DM: Kalima, I’ll start, I guess. Kalima’s just holding—clutching—this light to her chest tightly. The light’s leaking out around her fingers, but… and she is muttering a prayer. Rommel, the Glacier King—who she… she seems to have recognized the name—over and over again, like: “Protect us from… You’re the lord of ice and snow. Protect us from the ice and snow.”
Ekko: Hey, Mike. Yeah? Sorry—are there passageways?
DM: So… you’re on this floating platform in the darkness. There’s a bridge that leads into this, and there are four passageways going out of this. You’re like… you’re like at the ceiling. The bridge is like an ice arch that ends in the ceiling. And you have to, like, jump down into the room, but you can see four passageways leading out of the room.
Ekko: Got it, got it.
DM: Which is not… it’s not even really a room. It’s like there’s piled snow. It almost looks out— it’s open to the sky, but then the passageways are tunnels through, like, mounds of snow, right?
Eolo: Bye, buddy.
Ekko: And above us is, like, a magic storm that you—
DM: Above you is, like, a white magic storm, yeah. And below you is super strong wind that threw you back up.
Finnan: B.
Ekko: Right.
Finnan: If the bridge is south, which direction are the passageways?
DM: If the bridge is south, the passageways are… would be northeast and north-northeast… and southwest and south-southwest. Two of them kind of lead north, and two of them kind of lead southwest-ish.
Finnan: I get it.
DM: That’s the right way of putting it.
Finnan: Okay.
Eolo: Hello, casually strolling over the edge, kind of looking down…
Ekko: Ekko is, like, kind of always preemptively like, “Oh shit, what’s Eolo about to do?” And… is also leaning over by the edge. His, like, amulet’s kind of dangling down, and he’s peering over, and kind of sticks his wing out in front of Eolo as he’s also… as they peer… as they’re both, like, kind of peering down together over the edge.
Eolo: Eolo’s like, “Alright.”
DM: On one.
Jrain: One.
Ekko: Whoa.
Eolo: No. Oh, wait—what are we waiting for?
Ekko: We did this already.
Jrain: We’re not sure how well a six- to eight-foot jump goes for Kalima. The rest of us are probably fine.
Ekko: Didn’t we already try jumping, and then we got thrown back up?
Jrain: Yeah, that was the only one.
Finnan: On the engines.
Eolo: Yeah. That… there’s ground down there, Ekko. There’s ground. I’m not familiar with that.
Ekko: Oh, okay, okay, okay. Alright, alright, alright.
Finnan: So… and, well… Finnan is holding this, like—
DM: Glowing…
Finnan: Pipe. Like, a clay ocarina. And kind of looks around. I guess we better stick together.
Jrain: Rolla is… Jrain is bolstered by the presence of her avian companion, Rolla, and is looking forward to… I was looking around at the next steps to take and how the party is all doing, and wondering to the group.
DM: King…
Jrain: Kalima, do you need help getting down there?
DM: She looks a little… I mean, it’s not… she needs a little bit of help, I guess. But there are piles of snow; it doesn’t look that scary to, like… kind of… jump down. But yeah, I mean… she would sort of nod. Wow, she doesn’t speak your— you don’t speak Old Zimkovan.
Jrain: I didn’t directly ask her; I sort of hinted to Justas.
DM: She sort of… she sort of nods a little bit. Oh, sorry—go ahead.
Justas: Justas slings his shield over his back and hefts the big axe in the other hand, but extends… extends his shield hand over to the older woman, and starts talking Old Zimkovan about climbing down safely—giving her a hand down.
Finnan: Cool. Pretty interesting.
DM: So… before we… just one thing I meant to say before we get started: there’s probably gonna be a fair number of… there might be a fair number of skill proficiency checks. And I want to remind everybody, rules-wise, what I’m trying to do is… tell you what stat it is. To roll a stat on D&D Beyond, you click the plus under the stat, right? So, like, if I say it’s a DEX check, just click DEX +1 to roll, or whatever. And then you tell me if you have a skill—either an actual D&D skill, or something in your background, one of these background proficiencies—that would let you add your… which, everybody’s proficiency bonus is +3, so you just have to remember it’s a +3. So… tell me why you should get a +3. Which could be, “Oh, I’m proficient in Medicine and this is somehow related to Medicine,” or it could be, “Well, in my background, I spent a lot of time in the winter; I’m really good at surviving cold, and this is something about surviving cold.” And so, just, if I think it’s… if it seems plausible, you’ll get to add a +3 to the roll.
Finnan: I’m just gonna… I’ll try and remember this too, but to remind you: I have +1 to everything from Jack of All Trades, and expertise in History and Persuasion, which I forgot about last session. Which is sometimes trickier to remember when it’s not just +3 to everything. It’s either +1, +3, or plus—
DM: Yes, but you are an expert in D&D rules, Tim, and I’m capable of remembering these things. That’s a bonus action? Exactly. The other thing is—
Eolo: It’s the same time as Taco.
DM: Exactly. Sometimes it’ll be a group thing, where only half the people have to succeed for you guys to succeed as a group. Other times it’ll be like… you might have a skill challenge where you need a certain number of successes across the group, but everybody sort of goes by turns—kind of how Tim would run skill things—where everybody gets a chance to be like, “How I’m solving this problem.” So I’ll tell you if it’s a group check and only half the people need to succeed.
DM: Okay.
Jrain: Jrain looks over at where Justas is trying to find a climbing route down, because Jrain loves to climb. She had thought that maybe there was no way to climb and it was gonna just have to be a jump, but she’s taking a second look, following Justas’s lead.
DM: Yeah, I mean, you can sorta jump onto one of the snowbanks and sort of slide down. The snow comes up—there’s, like, piles of snow that you could sort of… you don’t even really have to climb. You could just sort of… any one of us could get down.
Jrain: That can be a supported descent.
DM: Yes, exactly. It’s not difficult to get down.
Finnan: Which way should we go?
Jrain: Let’s get down there and… and consider. Do we need to know before we get into the central space?
DM: You’re down, I assume. You just jumped down—there’s not—
Justas: Yeah, we’re gonna… climb on down.
DM: Yep.
Finnan: There’s probably no wrong way. There’s not much to pick from, so how about… that one. Finnan points to the one that is… like, northeast opposite the bridge. Like, the most diagonal opposite from the bridge.
DM: So it’s…
Eolo: Looks good to me.
DM: What order are you guys in?
Ekko: The safe one.
Finnan: I will suggest that Jrain—and… Finnan will suggest that Jrain goes first, because he knows her and thinks highly of her scouting skills.
DM: And…
Finnan: That… him and Justas go in the middle with Kima—or Kalima.
Ekko: And the two—
Finnan: But I’m not gonna try and decide where the two kenku go. They can pick their own location.
Eolo: Up front.
Finnan: Of course. Finnan’s already… Finnan’s already getting that sort of sense about Eolo.
Ekko: Ugh. I mean… Ekko is feeling like he wants to be Eolo’s handler, but maybe I’ll just… I’ll be in the back. I’ll be in the back.
DM: Okay. So, anyway…
Eolo: Barzime.
DM: It’s Jrain… Eolo… Justas, Kalima, Finnan, and Ekko?
Jrain: Yeah. With Rolla a little bit ahead to give any advance warning of anything obvious.
Finnan: And I will, I will—Kate, does Jrain have anything I can cast Light on? Maybe just an arrow, even.
DM: You cast Light on an arrow, sure.
Jrain: I will… sure! I will dispel Light from my—
Finnan: My ocarina, and then play a little tune, and it, like, jumps over to… one of Jrain’s arrows. Or—oh, look at Justas. Justas, do you have any… did any torches or anything survive the fall in your backpack?
DM: What?
Justas: Good question.
Justas: No, but I’ll, you know, I’ll take a little… charm from a… on a bracelet around my wrist, and… hand it over, and—
Finnan: Okay. Just so Jrain has light and Kalima has light, so we’ve got light at both ends of the line. Right.
Jrain: Yuck.
DM: Okay. So, you start down the passage.
Jrain: Absolutely, but cautiously.
DM: It’s… it’s a little narrow. Like, the actual entrance right into the passage is, like, a little bit narrow and very snowy—like, y’all get a little snow brushed on you. And there’s a little bit of a wind, sort of, as you go down. As you start entering, there’s a little bit of a wind swirl that—like, a sharp, cold wind—blows past you. And then, after this, like, entrance through, like, a snowbank that’s kind of, like, almost looks dug like a circular tunnel, you come out into—after maybe 20 feet—you come out into, like, a rough… stone… rough stone floor. A little bit of stone on, like, stone walls. Still, the ceiling is still, like, ice—like snowpack. And there’s, like, hoarfrost on the walls, so it’s, like, rough stone with, like, spidery ice cracks.
DM: And after another, maybe… 20 feet, it splits. You come to, like, a dead end—like, a dead end almost—and it splits. So you can either go… it twists. And do any of you have any magical ability to keep direction?
Eolo: No. An erroneous belief that I have, I’d really excellent.
Justas: No, but I want to make the case that I’m proficient in Survival and I have a strong survival skill, but I’m also used to navigating, like, through the snows in winter, in the mountains. I think I have a pretty good sense of direction.
DM: So that’s… the tunnel twists, like—it makes a few twists, right? Like, as you go, it twists to the left and then to the right a few times, and then… split. It forks, right? So there’s, like, one branch going off to the left and one going off to the right.
Finnan: Pick a direction, Jrain.
DM: Kate, you’re muted.
Jrain: Sorry, was talking to a child—now talking to you. It would waste a lot of time if Rolla checked down every set of openings and passages, so… why don’t we just… We’re headed north. We’ve veered off… we’ve veered sort of left, so let’s take the left-hand. Just sort of be consistent.
DM: You go about another 15 feet. I mean, you’re… how close are you guys… you’re walking fairly tight pattern, I assume?
Finnan: Yeah.
Justas: Yeah.
DM: You go around about another 15 feet, and it starts to slope down pretty noticeably—like a substantial, like, steep… almost steep enough… not steep enough that it’s actually dangerous for a party of adventurers, but Kalima’s footing gets a little uncertain. Like, there are definitely ice patches on the ground—like some black ice and stuff on the stone—you have to be a little careful as you walk. It would be dangerous for any of our parents, let’s put it that way. And you sort of go down steeply, maybe… 25–30 feet.
DM: And there’s… you come to a small sort of room with four passages… five… four passages, kind of like a… like a finger without a thumb, sort of branching off. And as you come out into this room… again, it’s… it’s similar. Passageway—like, there’s a… little snow on the floor. A big wind—like, a gust—sort of blows up very suddenly as you come out of this room, and all the snow swirls around you for a minute. And you’re sort of standing in this passageway with four directions you can go.
Finnan: I’ll just take a minute and do the Gandalf thing—is there any difference in the wind coming from any of the passageways?
DM: Make an Intelligence check.
Finnan: 16.
DM: The two passageways—like, these two—seem very still. There’s a wind blowing… you notice air flowing down this passageway and up this passageway. So, like, as you’re standing, sort of feeling at the passageways, you can feel a breeze going down this one and coming back into the room from this one.
Finnan: We have no basis to choose here, so let’s go to one that doesn’t have wind. The farthest to the right.
DM: Okay. You go down about 50 feet, and you hear, like, a loud dripping of water, but you can’t… you don’t see anything. But you hear a loud sort of dripping of water as you go down 50 feet. And then it dead-ends, sort of where you hear the dripping. But it’s just… it’s just a wall of ice in the middle of the passageway.
Ekko: So some… like, you know—Ekko, out of his whole crew, has probably spent the most time actually in the Chasm, right?
DM: Yeah.
Ekko: You know, now we’re walking around doing this—like, is this at all familiar to any type of landscape that he’s ever been in inside the Chasm? Or does this really feel like its own unique little bubble that is, like… you know what I mean?
DM: Yeah.
Ekko: Oh, this, this, this… you know, there are aspects of this that feel familiar to the actual Chasm.
DM: I mean, you could be in some… you feel… it feels kind of inside right now, right? Like, you’re not open to the sky; you’re in a tunnel. It could be a tunnel in the wall of the Chasm somewhere. But…
Ekko: I presume, you know, there are tunnels in the wall, and you’ve probably been in it, you know what I mean?
DM: It doesn’t… it doesn’t feel… I mean, it’s nowhere—if it’s somewhere in the Chasm, it’s deeper than you’ve ever been, probably.
Ekko: Okay.
DM: What’s down in the far depths… like, it’s not like you’ve gone down—no. There’s no bottom. You haven’t gone down.
Ekko: But I guess what I’m trying to say is: is this similar to stuff that Ekko has seen, or does this feel very different? This feels like a—
DM: No, it’s… it… it doesn’t have… like, the vibe of the stuff you’ve seen in the Chasm is, like… old and abandoned, right? It’s, like, carved. It’s, like, these… you know… a floating rock with a… with, like, an ancient carved stone seat on it that nobody knows why there’s just a seat. Whereas this has, like… it feels a little bit alive to you. The Chasm typically feels abandoned, right? It’s… it’s left behind from some mysterious thing. It’s not… that. But it just doesn’t have that sense.
Jrain: Cool. Backtrack.
Finnan: Yeah. Two things Finnan’s paying attention to as we… as we walk, right: first, where is… this dripping sound— is it coming from somewhere above us?
DM: No. It sounds like it’s coming from past the ice that you’re… you walked down. And it sounded like it was coming… as you were walking down the corridor, it sounded like it was coming from in front of you, right? And then you came to this block of ice that totally blocks the passage. And it still sounds like it’s coming from in front of you.
Finnan: And the… the—
DM: Stone floors.
Finnan: Finnan is certainly no seeker, but… is this the same kind of rock that’s, like, around the Chasm? I mean… does this seem… have I walked on this kind of rock before?
DM: Make another Intelligence check, I guess.
Finnan: 20.
DM: Yeah, I mean… as best you can tell, it’s fairly… you know, granite. Actually, I don’t even… I’m not sure what rock would be plausible, but probably something like granite. It’s not dissimilar to, like… when you’re traveling through the Sentinels, you know? The kind of rock you’d find if you’re camping out in a cave—if you’re taking shelter in some… some fissure, in a crack in the mountain, or something like that, right? Like, it’s… it doesn’t… it’s not like marble. It’s not something unexpected.
Finnan: Okay.
DM: You go back to the—
Finnan: Yup, let’s just take the next one.
