DM: You awaken in the dark, lying on a platform of ice.
unknown_speaker: Apparently floating in the darkness.
DM: Three body lengths above you is the howling whiteness of snow. You can't see into it, and it looks like it's moving very quickly. It would probably be dangerous to fly in it. And the wind shrieks, even here, lying on the ice beneath it, the wind shrieks.
unknown_speaker: And.
DM: The occasional gust seems to, like, come and almost steal your breath away. As you open your eyes, first of all, you see everybody here. And then you also see a dim blue light glowing from two places inside this platform of ice, which is enough light to let you see… although you can't really see the edges, it's all just in shadows and darkness, you can see two bridges, one in front of you, one behind you, leading off the platform into darkness.
unknown_speaker: In front of each bridge, there's a large wolf.
DM: encased almost entirely in ice, like, totally encased in ice. But, like, not in a block of ice, like, thin layer of ice around the wolf's body. Almost looks like a…
unknown_speaker: Ice.
DM: Sculpture.
unknown_speaker: Double.
DM: Why doesn't everybody say what their characters look like? If you had a moment to think about it. As you lie here in the darkness. We're staring up into the whiteness of the Halloween wind.
Finnan: I'll… I can go first, so… The first thing… I don't know if anybody has darkvision, but assuming nobody has darkvision, the first thing you notice is not What you see, but the sound…
unknown_speaker: Of.
Finnan: a, like, simple melody being played on a… on a clay pipe. And as the sound is played, suddenly a light begins to glow brightly. And you look up, and I'm casting the light spell, and you see… a halfling, maybe… I don't know, in his mid-40s, early 50s, but, you know, pretty healthy and hail, well-traveled, holding now in his hand a glowing Clay, pipe. That's casting a bright light around all of us. He sets up.
unknown_speaker: Briefly shaking his head, you can see…
Finnan: He's… he has, like, curly… thick, curly brown hair. not…
unknown_speaker: Not wearing a cloak.
Finnan: Green eyes, a sort of cheerful complexion, The only things that you see, he's wearing, leather armor, studded leather armor, well-traveled, he's… everything about him is he clearly travels a lot. He's holding what seems to be his most precious possession is a leather writing case clutched around his two arms, stuffed with notes and papers and…
unknown_speaker: Other things that you can't clearly see.
Finnan: And as he sits up, you can see that he's got 3 rings on his fingers, a silver ring, a gold ring, and a… I never decided what this other ring looks like, or Mike never decided what that looks like. And a… and a… sort of a… two silver rings and a gold ring. Any kind of shh… Sits up, shakes his head, and looks around at all of you.
Eolo: Not far away, there's a Russell. as… A raven-like kenku. Flips his body up. from… Lying prone on his back. all in one… Fluid gesture to land on his feet. Two crossbows sweep out. And he does a spin, looking all around. Wild-eyed. Points them up. and then…
unknown_speaker: Drops them back down to his sides.
Eolo: What the hell? Iolo is a young Kenku. Wearing leather armor, and strapped to his back is a… Quiver. With glowing runes.
Ekko: as, YOLO, like, pulls out his two crossbows and is, like, looking at everybody, like, you know, about ready to potentially do something or not do something, and slowly is withdrawing. you see this, like, giant Kenku wing, like, like, go in front of the two crossbows, and then… and then, like, kind of slightly covering YOLO's face, and then you see, like, kind of leaning up a second Kenku, also right next to Yolo, sitting up slowly. Wearing, A dark green, cloak. And, and you notice, you know, interesting eyes. He's got, you know, one, one really, like, kind of sapphire, like, emerald, like, really, like, or sorry, emerald, like, green eye, and another one, like, a brown eye. This, like, green-brown eye combo, which is very good.
Eolo: Raw.
Ekko: And… And, but no other, you know, maybe a little bit of armor under the leather coke, but nothing else really, really to speak of. Looks young, not quite as young as YOLO, but, you know, on the younger side, as far as you may be able to surmise with Kenku. And, you know, keeping the wing in front of YOLO, And you see him kind of, like, whispering, like, dude, watch where you're pointing at, watch where you're pointing this. A little, you know, a little aggressive.
Eolo: Okay.
Ekko: It's a little aggressive.
Eolo: Twice, live once, bro.
Ekko: Yep, it's a little aggressive.
unknown_speaker: You're.
Ekko: kind of at a… you're at a 12, let's, like, dial it back to, like, a 7, you know, just, like, a little bit.
Eolo: happened, though, man.
Ekko: And kind of looking around and, you know, seeing, seeing everybody as not looking overly threatening, says, Not sure how we all ended up here, but, I'm, I'm Echo. And, this is YOLO.
Eolo: low bows.
Ekko: Echo also will give a little, a little breath.
Justas: large and powerfully built human in his probably early 50s gets to his feet and nods to all of you, says, justice. He's bald, with a big beard flowing, and this, set of… Armor, you know, head to toe, this long sort of coat of, splint mail, and… greaves and armored all over, with a massive shield that's carved with, these rapids on it. When you look out of the corner of your eye, it seems like the water on it's flowing, and when you look squarely at it, it just looks like a carved shield. He's got, in the other hand, As he drops the backpack that he's been clutching to his chest. In his other hand, carries a massive battle axe, and The closer you look at the loop, this leather loop on the end of it, there's these different… charms, which, if you're familiar with the area, you might recognize Charms for some of the Gustavo, the local spirits, all, you know, in a 100-mile radius from where we are. But this funny collection of things, like a sprig of mistletoe, and an acorn, and a little vial of water, and… others on a necklace around his neck that he's tucking back under his armor again. You know, all these different charms of the local gods, and he… Smiles grimly, and looks around, and… Just gives a little sigh and a shake of his head.
Jrain: With a glance at her, companion.
DM: I'll get to her. She made it.
Jrain: Yeah. Stands up and… Somehow manages to… Twitch her cloak and her hair, which is long and black and flowing. So that all of a sudden, she falls into place, and she's, regained her composure and sorted everything out with her bow and, and arrows. And her, large… Warm-looking gray cloak of, owl feathers.
unknown_speaker: It goes with her.
Jrain: gray pants and… black shirt and, you know, worn… worn practical traveling clothes. And.
unknown_speaker: She's…
Jrain: Already alert, and looking around and smiling at those she knows, and… Greeting those who are new.
Ekko: What's her name again?
Jrain: Drain, J-R-A-I-N.
DM: Lying next to Drain, is a young woman… well… She looks about… maybe 25, 30-ish? She's wearing a well-made fur cloak, although, actually, that… she's not anymore. She was wearing a well-made fur cloak, it snapped off in the wind. And now she's just… she's wearing, sort of. plainly made, like, leathers and fur clothes. They're sort of an unfamiliar style. There's no cloth, it's all, nothing woven. animal, all made from, like, weather or fur, and sort of pieced together. Several different layers, it looks like it would be warm. Her face is sort of round, slightly dark, sort of like, like, Native American, like, sort of slightly dark-skinned, but not… not, like… brown. And she has, like… she's missing a tooth, and she has a large scar on one cheek, but otherwise, fairly attractive sort of face. But as soon as she, Hold on, let me… okay, Kong, I see what you said, but…
Ekko: I'll do that.
DM: Yeah, no, no, no, it's good, just give me one second. As soon as she… as soon as she lands, she, like, walks up, there's a look of total terror, like, she looks…
unknown_speaker: Terrified.
DM: She starts saying something. A language you don't understand, although actually, hold on…
DM: And wait, Schwartz, justice speaks Old Zimcoven, right?
Justas: Yep.
DM: Okay, I sent the two of you what she's saying. And she… she starts standing up, And… is, like, looking around. Like… looks like she's about to do something, although you have a moment if you wanna… if you wanna do anything.
Jrain: I reached out a hand in case she wanted a hand getting up.
Justas: Like, sorry?
Finnan: Is she…
Justas: I didn't see anything. In chat, you sent something?
DM: Oh, sorry, I sent it to the wrong person. I sent it to Kong, not Schwart, not you. Ignore what she said. Ignore what I said, it doesn't really matter.
Ekko: I didn't read anything. What are you talking about? No messages.
Finnan: Is she… is she scared? Is she…
DM: scared.
Finnan: Okay. I will… Holding my, Actually, I'm gonna just… I'm gonna start, chanting in old Zimkoven, and, there's a… a sort of… Casting calm emotions. So what's a…
DM: Okay.
Finnan: DC15 Charisma Save. it… Makes her not hostile, she's hostile, and suppresses charm and fear.
DM: Okay, she… as you start to… Wait, does that have a… .
Finnan: It's a 20-foot… sphere. So, anybody else who's frightened. Of this situation is also going to be calmed.
DM: You start… as you start to sing, make a… this… this has… well, all your spells have verbal components, make a… make a constitution saving throw.
Ekko: All of us?
DM: No, just Tim.
Finnan: Dean.
DM: As you start to sing, the wind picks up a little bit, and it, like, almost… you, like, it, like, blows across you, and, like, it takes a minute for you to, like, regain the strength of your song. It's almost like the wind is trying to steal your voice. But you recover the strength of your song, and you… you finish, and she comes down, and… and looks around.
Ekko: him, am I?
DM: She seems calmed, like, the spell clearly, clearly worked on.
Finnan: That's only… it only lasts a minute, so I'm gonna quickly… Ask her where we are and why it's… So… Bad.
Ekko: Wait, just before we do any of that, Oh, yeah, yeah. Are we in a place that… because, like, out of everybody here, Echo's probably the only one that's actually, like, actively, like, hung, you know, floating around in the chasm and, like, knows it… like, knows at least the top layers.
DM: Yeah.
Ekko: You know? Are we someplace he recognizes, or like, can he place where we are?
DM: No, this… Echo doesn't… it feels… something feels off to you about this, like…
Eolo: Mmm.
DM: the… the… The darkness on both sides, and, like, the unnatural sort of…
unknown_speaker: storm above you. It doesn't… It doesn't feel…
DM: the way the chasm would normally feel. The chasm normally feels like… sort of… Nature, twisted in an unexpected way, but still kind of natural.
Ekko: Right? This has kind of a…
DM: this sort of, like, it's not normal, like, normally it would be, like, weather, but with gravity going the wrong way, right? Yeah. But it's still weather, it still has this chaos of, like, this is, like, this regular, like, weird… White cloud above you that almost… as you look at it, it's almost, like, beating down on you with, like, a presence, like, that it doesn't want you… that, like, you're not supposed to be here. It definitely does not feel like the place you've been.
Ekko: What, what is it, is it… was it dark out before?
DM: It was, like, 3 o'clock in the afternoon. So, I mean, it was getting dark, because it's midwinter, and you're pretty far north, but…
Ekko: Now, where we are, we're, like, when we look around, we're blocked out, like, the sky's blocked out, like, we can't see anything, we're, like, in the.
DM: Yeah, so you're, like, lying on a platform that's floating in, like, a black space. So if you look to the left or right, or back or front, it's all blackness, except there's these two glowing lights that are illuminating these two wolves carved out of, like, ice wolves, that then are…
Eolo: Hmm.
DM: positioned like they're guarding two bridges, right? And then above you, there's just this whiteness that's, like, spreading across like a sky, but it's not a real sky, it's a storm.
Finnan: How big is this platform?
DM: you can't… how… what's the radius of white? It's 30 feet in all directions.
Finnan: in all directions.
DM: 40 feet in all directions, and they've been looking at my map.
DM: you can see the… it's just about 40 feet in all directions. You can just… not quite, you can see to your left and right, just the edge… like, the edge of the platform, it just drops off. But to your… to your… same with… it's kind of the ice… where the bridges are, you can't quite… where these two ice bridges are leaving off, it's just a little bit more elongated in those two directions, so you can't quite see… The edge there, but for the most part, you're standing kind of on a… not perfectly spherical, but a roughly shaped 40-foot diameter sphere. Like oval. Like, circle. Yeah, it's not a perfect circle, but it's close-ish to a circle.
