Finnan: Hmm.
Finnan: Finnen will… well, kind of… Thoughtfully look up at the clouds.
DM: And you can't… I mean, you can't see anything except the light from the dim… from your light. Like, you can just see the very bottom of the storm.
DM: So… I mean, I'm gonna say, you guys may as well take a short… you've been talking for long enough that you can probably just… you should probably just take a short rest.
Finnan: Yeah.
DM: Unless you… unless you… Want to do something else. Bet.
DM: I mean, as you're talking, after maybe…
Finnan: Oh, so the other thing I'm gonna do, actually, when there's a… when there's a minute. when Finnan's not, like, actively engaged, or has a minute to kind of step away from the group, I'm gonna ritual cast. Detect Magic.
DM: Okay?
Ekko: dude.
DM: M… Justice's shield is magic.
Finnan: That drains Clocus magic.
DM: Ehhh.
Finnan: With no other magic anywhere.
Ekko: Kaizen Magic?
Jrain: Giant white cloud is not magic.
DM: The… The sky… is not… I mean…
DM: It's actually an interesting ques… I actually don't… I know I have to consult with you, Tim, about what is patching. You get this, I mean…
Ekko: The spell's like, meh.
DM: Ehh…
DM: No, you don't, you don't… nothing to tag, nothing's magical.
Finnan: Okay.
Ekko: I mean… Obviously, we'd come back, but we could just try flying out of here and seeing what's on the other side of that cloud. YOLO, she wanna go check it out?
Eolo: -Oh, just recharging my… Nick Power thing.
DM: Don't they only be checked on a long rest?
Eolo: It says, you can… you remain one…
DM: Yeah, you were getting one and a short rest. Yeah.
Finnan: I mean… Tom.
DM: As you've been talking, the… like… After… you've sort of been talking for a while, and like, you've been engaged with each other and stuff, and the… but you've noticed the… the… the cloud is kind of… shrinking lower, and the wind is now just howling a little bit more. There's, like, occasional direct swirls come out of the cloud down, like, little mini whirlwinds of snow come down and, like, touch the… touch the ice. And the draft is higher, right? Like, I guess you don't have any… you have nothing that would actually flicker in the… but, like, your feathers ruffle a little bit more, like, the wind is just blowing a little bit stronger. And every once in a while, you… you just… you hear, like, a howl on the wind, like, not… That, like, animal… just, like… just, like… It doesn't sound like the wind, but it doesn't really sound like an animal either, it just sounds primal.
DM: And, you know, so as one of these whirlwinds of snow, touches down the, The woman, like, curls even tighter into herself, and is like… It doesn't like waiting.
Ekko: The wind?
DM: The beast.
Ekko: What beast.
DM: Zyphus… Minion. The beast in the… in the maze.
Ekko: Where's the maze?
Eolo: Maybe we're in it.
DM: to kind of…
Justas: platforms and bridges.
Finnan: I'm gonna… there's, like… what is the ground made out of?
DM: Ice.
Eolo: Nice.
Finnan: I'm just gonna, like, chip off enough ice to make, like, a little snowball, cast light on it, and, like… Chuck it down the path of one of the bridges.
DM: It… Skitters down the bridge about 20… 15 or 20 feet, and then… fall, like. You see it kind of go over a little bit of an edge, and then you can see, glowing, like, there's still a faint glow coming up from the edge of the bridge. Like, it skittered along the bridge, and then it rolled off on the far end, which… it was hard to see the details, because…
Finnan: It's like…
DM: But you could still see the glove, I mean, it's still… it couldn't have fallen that far, because you still see the glow. Like, it just fell maybe 10 feet, and it's now, like, you can see a glow coming up. Kind of illuminating, a space.
Finnan: Same thing on the other bridge.
DM: Yep. It kind of maybe… it's maybe, like, fell into a snowbank or something? Like, it's hard to tell exactly what it fell into without walking over there.
Justas: I'll do the same thing, but lean over the edge of the platform and just drop something straight down below me with light on it.
DM: So, it… it… Falls about… 10 feet, and then it comes, like, you hear a gust of wind, like a strong sound of the wind, and it comes, like, at high speed, flying back up and slams into the… into the ice. I mean, presumably this was a piece of ice, so it… I mean, whatever it was, if it was another piece of ice, shatters and skitters across the ice.
Eolo: Hmm… Eula looks over at Echo and says, I wonder… Starts to step over to the edge.
Ekko: Echo also gets over to the edge. Let's do it.
Eolo: Count of 3.
Ekko: 2… 1… Alright, we go.
DM: What are you, what are you doing?
Eolo: Well, Yolo's idea was just to leap straight down and see if the, gust pushes him back up and do an amazing trick.
Ekko: Too much… too much testiculating. Okay, there you go.
Justas: just turns to Finn, and they seemed nice. Where to now?
DM: So… so hold on. So, YOLO jumps!
Ekko: No, we both jumped, we both jumped.
DM: Okay, so you're jumping, and just see what happens.
Ekko: We're diving into the… we're just going down. Yeah, we're diving down.
DM: Make strength saving throws.
Eolo: Oh, boy.
Ekko: I'm sure this is gonna be good. I really just wanted to do the arm thing with Eric, that was kind That was our main discussion in the breakout room? about that.
Eolo: Whew! Unusual role for strength like that at 22.
Ekko: One.
DM: Okay.
Ekko: I rolled a 2, but I have a minus 1 on my strength, so…
DM: Right. And wait, you got a 22, you said?
Eolo: Yeah.
Ekko: How'd you do that?
Eolo: I rolled very high.
Ekko: What's your, what's your modifier for Strike?
Eolo: I think it's also minus 1.
Finnan: But he has a plus…
Eolo: Oh, no, it's…
Finnan: You've got a plus 3 to the strength save.
DM: Right.
Eolo: Oh, from some…
Finnan: You're proficient in strength.
Eolo: So, you both jump off.
DM: And… you… glide, you know, you sort of fly down maybe 15 feet when this very strong wind, catches, like, this… just this gust of this, like, wind. It catches you. Echo, you're just flung up, like, with violent force, and, like, catapulted over the… the… back onto the platform and smashed face-first into the ice, you take 16 points of damage.
Ekko: Dammit.
DM: YOLO, you are not… the wind is buffeting you, and you're… but you… but you maintain your position, right? Like, you… you're kind of… you're hovering carefully, like… a few minutes, you know, I don't know if you, if you, if you wait, another gust will probably come, and you can't go down it.
Eolo: My intention was to see what was down there, and then use the power of the gust to do an amazing, like, triple backflip back onto the platform.
DM: Okay, so are you gonna… so you can't keep going, like, swimming… not swimming, flying further down, it feels impossible, right? I mean, maybe if you were much stronger, you could try and push your way, but at the moment, you're, like, being pushed up with a strong enough force that you can't keep going. But you're, like, balancing such that it's not actually flinging you up. So, you could try and just…
Eolo: clean trick. Yeah.
DM: You're gonna try to do that.
Eolo: Push myself down, and then bounce back up, yeah.
DM: Okay, make a… make a dex. make a DEX.
Eolo: Acrobatics.
DM: well, just roll DEX, and you don't have any… do you have any reason why you'd be proficient in this kind of thing? Well, I forget what you said, your background, your background… so the idea behind the narrative proficiencies is I'm trying to say instead of what skill to use, just what ability to use, and then if your narrative proficiencies.
Eolo: Ugh.
DM: would apply, you could say, well, I'm really good at this, and you get to add your proficiency bonus.
Eolo: Yolo has an unwavering and insanely powerful belief in himself to do tricks. He is ultra-confident.
DM: Specifically, because you can't just say he's ultra-confident and therefore gets to succeed.
Finnan: It applies to all ability checks that involve showing off.
DM: There you go, perfect! That's what I'm doing.
Eolo: That's what I'm talking about.
DM: That's what you're asking for. Like a competition, or… Right, right, yeah, yeah, yeah, okay.
Eolo: Very true.
DM: Add 7, roll D20, add 7.
Eolo: Nice. Alright, so… I don't know how to do the plus on this stuff.
DM: You just roll a straight D20, or just roll… click on the… see the plus 4 under your decks? Just roll the decks, and then add 3 to that.
Eolo: Oh, so my raw D20 roll was 11.
DM: Okay, so add 7 as an 18. Yeah. So, y'all, Comes flying out, does a backflip, skates along the ice, a triple backflip, lands with one foot along the ice, puts the back foot claw down to drag to a halt, and stops right in front of Echo, who is bleeding with his face punched in by the ice.
Eolo: Oh man, Echo, what happened?
Ekko: Echo gets up, wets the blood off his face. Peak. It smooths out his feathers. Well, yeah, so we can't fly down there, that's for sure.
Eolo: Well.
Ekko: Looks like we have to go one of these two paths, huh?
Finnan: Yeah, I think… We're gonna have to walk out of here. Hannah… Interested to see… I'll look over at the… the Zimkova woman, and… If I haven't before, I'm gonna ask her what her name is.
DM: Oh, yeah. Her name… no, no, no, I had it, I just… I closed it to look at the Gestapo. Her name is Kalima.
Finnan: I'll say to Kalima. Which, I'll just try and get a sense from her if she has any idea, like, are the… does the path matter? Like, do people…
DM: she sort of shakes her head and is, like, the… All paths lead to the beast. I… I don't know how I escaped.
Eolo: What is this beast?
DM: She'd never met the Beast, right? All she knows is this story. I mean, she kind of… She's not totally convinced you guys couldn't kill the beast, you did a pretty good job killing these scary wolf things.
Eolo: That's right.
DM: but she, she doesn't… I mean, there's… she doesn't have any specific knowledge of what the beast is, but… but she sort of… she tells you that it's kind of like… it… it's… it's… she doesn't know, like… like, she doesn't really know how she found a way out. She said she found… she saw a… a… An earthen tunnel, and she just dug through it. But she doesn't know how she found it. Ed.
Eolo: I know.
DM: And the paths generally all lead to the beast, she says.
Ekko: Wait, so when we… can she only understand Finian, or can she understand.
DM: and justice, only if they need justice. But they can translate. Although. Although, if you guys… if you, like, if Echo… Well, tell me what you're trying to do.
Ekko: Just wanna talk. Can we just talk and then assume that the translating is happening?
Finnan: I'm… I'm, like, still trying to keep this illusion up so that she can't… she can't see outside of the… Okay.
DM: So you're keeping the Kentu kind of hidden from her, right.
Finnan: Yes.
Ekko: Oh, fine.
Finnan: I don't want her to freak out.
Ekko: Fine, fine, fine, yeah, get it.
DM: But you can talk and pass along the message. Yeah, that's what we're doing, yeah.
Ekko: So, just… are we in the maze now?
DM: Yeah, this is the entrance. Which way? This is… she… I mean, she fell through the same…
Ekko: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
DM: sheet.
Ekko: There's… but there's two paths right now, right?
DM: doesn't matter. The maze takes you where the maze wants to take you.
Eolo: Hmm.
Ekko: Let's… let's get out of here, then. Let's move… let's keep moving.
Finnan: So, just one quick metagame thing, so Druids can use… a… either a spell slot or a use of Wild Shape to cast Find Familiar without material components, so if you wanted to, you could summon a familiar, and send it to Go Scout. But it might just vanish into the mists, and you'd never see it again.
Ekko: Cool.
DM: Nate can also summon her bird.
Finnan: Not according to the rules.
Jrain: And he said it had to be right after a long rest.
Finnan: You can only summon the beast when you complete a long rest.
Finnan: But you don't have to play it that way.
DM: No, I think you could… you could… .
Finnan: Normally, if it dies, you have to… if it dies, you have to take a… either.
DM: Yay!
Finnan: spell slot to heal it, or…
DM: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. But, but, I didn't intend… .
Jrain: You didn't intend you can only have 10 arrows and everything you can.
DM: No, no, no, no, no, sorry, I didn't realize how your… I… when it burned up, and that was several days ago.
Jrain: Right. So…
DM: Here's what I… In Denver.
Jrain: You tell me if you're the DM.
DM: Yeah, yeah.
Jrain: But I heard that every morning I wake up. And Rolla appears, and we have a frolicking fun day together. Yeah. Except that this morning I woke up, and Rolla appeared, and I went off to go travel with a Zimca woman, and a giant storm of immense wind capacity whipped me into another dimension.
DM: Yeah, but Rollo could have survived the storm.
Jrain: Okay, so she's.
DM: Because, I mean, the Zimco woman only had 5 hit points, she survived the storm. So there's no reason why Rolla wouldn't have survived the storm. I thought it was like a familiar that you summoned and dismissed whenever you wanted. So, I thought you just didn't have… no, Rawa would have survived the storm. There's not a… I mean, none of you took damage.
Jrain: She wasn't so battered by the wind that she disappeared, and I can't see her again until tomorrow morning.
DM: Yes, yes.
Jrain: That's good news.
DM: I mean…
Ekko: Yeah, I'd do that. I, I, I get up, familiar.
DM: Are you using…
Ekko: What are… what are some good animals?
Finnan: Well, your only choices are… Your only choices are…
DM: You… you do… just one… one note, you do get a strong sense from this… from Kalima, that, like. This is not… the labyrinth is not the kind of place you sleep.
Eolo: Hmm.
Ekko: I don't want to waste both slots doing this.
Finnan: Yeah, I mean…
Jrain: If Rolla's already here, maybe we should just send her.
Ekko: Yeah, I'll see that. Rawl is here, let's see that.
Jrain: Right. Having gone unnoticed as she stayed through…
DM: I'm gonna say she was battered by the fall and recovered. You nursed her back to life as… to health as part of the short rest.
Jrain: Alright, Grace.
DM: You guys also, by the way, anybody who wants to spend hit dice during the short rest, you certainly can.
Finnan: Yep.
Justas: Yep.
DM: Yeah, so you're sending Rolla?
Jrain: I am sending Rolla.
DM: What is Rolla? I guess I should have read your Beastmaster abilities more carefully. Rawa has darkvision, and can Rolla communicate with you mentally?
Finnan: No.
Jrain: No.
DM: So you just, like, give her instructions, and she goes off and then comes back?
Finnan: Yes.
DM: Okay, what instructions are you giving her?
Jrain: I say… We're gonna head off in this direction, can you go a short ways and see if there's any obvious, dangerous beasts?
DM: She… how… Okay, she… she comes back a few minutes later and basically tells you there's a… There's a… there's a room. Like, the bridge leads… into, like, the ceiling of a… of, like, a snowbank, basically. And there's an opening, but you can jump down into the snow. It's like… And then there's four, sort of, passageways going off into, like, Going, like. The geometry is kind of a little hard to understand, like, it doesn't quite seem… Like, it totally fits, but there's basically four branches, like, 4 going, like, into the… it, like, tunnels into the snow. So it's almost like a massive snow bank, and there's, like, these four narrow tunnels, like, weaving… Bleeding into the snow. Each going out. So it's probably your best mental picture, is you're in an empty black space, floating, with all this wind, and then there's snow over there somewhere, and you can jump into it, and then there's these four tunnels, each… your bird didn't go down through any of the four tunnels. But there was no signs of any creatures.
Jrain: Alright, let's go get ourselves lost.
Finnan: Yeah.
Jrain: Are we gonna… I mean, poor… Poor Kalima doesn't seem to have the vibe of wanting to go back in, but on the other hand, she doesn't seem to be safe just sitting here.
DM: Indeed! She's not gonna go back in, unless you physically drag her.
Jrain: Alright.
DM: I mean… You could physically drag her.
Finnan: Wow.
DM: It's not necessarily…
Finnan: the dragger. I guess Justice could probably physically drag her. Maybe drain.
Justas: I feel like we… I… we can persuade her. I'm gonna take a crack at, like, persuading her to… Like, she's gonna be safer, for sure, with us than…
DM: Left alone? Like, who knows what random shit's gonna show up to…
Justas: Chomper.
DM: Alright, make a… make a persuasion check.
Finnan: I'm… I'm gonna… I'm gonna help Justice with this.
DM: Okay.
Justas: That's, 18… I still have… I think I still have a Bardic Inspiration floating around, if.
Finnan: It only lasts an hour, so if we took a short rest, you don't.
Justas: Oh, okay, nevermind.
Finnan: But I'm… I'm helping with you, so you have advantage.
Justas: Right. Do that again… 18 is the better of the two.
DM: What's, what's your, like, your argument it should be safer with you?
Justas: Yeah.
DM: She kind of looks around at you for a minute, at the group of you, and kind of… Looks at the two… Bird creatures? What are they?
Justas: They're, they're a Kenku. They're, they're perfectly ordinary, results of COVID that they can't understand, I presume.
Jrain: They're perfectly ordinary.
Justas: Person-bird hybrids, you know, it's… It's just one of those things, they're from another… Another part of the country. I've seen… I've seen so many Kenku. They're perfectly lovely. They're, you know, they're on their own trip, but they're… they're nice.
Ekko: I think he's saying good stuff about us.
DM: She looks? A little terrified, but is like… Wait, who cast healing on her?
Finnan: Finn in.
DM: spinning. She's like… if I could… if I could… stay between the two of you, maybe, pointing to Justice and Finian.
Justas: Yeah.
Finnan: Yeah.
Justas: Yeah, yeah, yeah. You know, until you get to know them a little bit better.
DM: Don't… Don't… promise… on the Kestavo, who are not here. That you won't leave me down there.
Justas: I promise, says Justice.
DM: Okay, you convince her. She'll come with you.
Justas: I'll say in common. She's coming with us. She hasn't met Kenku before, so she's a little freaked out by the… The two of you, just… just because it's new and different, not… Not because humans automatically have problems with Kenku.
Eolo: She's gonna love it.
Justas: I mean, like, she's literally never seen a Kenku before, so it's… It's just a lot for her. Go easy.
DM: So, are you, jumping down into the snow tunnel?
Justas: Let's do it.
Finnan: Yeah.
DM: It's, it's 11.45. Are people good going another, like, 20 minutes, or do we want to stop now?
Finnan: I'm good, but I'm not the one who falls asleep, so… I'll go with the group. Eric probably wants to go to bed.
Eolo: I, I, yeah.
DM: We can stop now.
Justas: Lots of stuff now, yeah.
DM: Yeah, yeah, we can stop now. We should… I realize it occurs to me we have not scheduled. We have to schedule.
Finnan: Yeah.
Eolo: Cool.
DM: Wow, I found this really fun, I hope you enjoyed it. It's not exactly what I expected to happen, but that's okay.
Finnan: Never is.
Eolo: That's called the Indy.
DM: Yep. No, it's fine.
