Ekko: Yeah, isn't… Should we also acknowledge this momentous occasion?
Finnan: That's awesome, I love it.
DM: Tim as a player. I know.
Ekko: like, no, this has been, like, what, our lifetimes in the making? Tim as a player, intact.
DM: It's true.
Ekko: Turning over the reins to his brother, his beloved brother, now, as the DM. This is pretty fucking epic, I'm just saying. Great.
DM: Tim's kind of a high, high, a difficult act to follow.
Eolo: Yeah, it's true.
Finnan: I'm sure it will be amazing.
Ekko: I'm stoked, though, Mike. This is…
DM: Fast.
Ekko: Yeah, shout out to Tim, this is great.
DM: So… forget everything we said last session. I mean, obviously all the world building and character building, fine, but I have a… I have a new intro to start over with, and then… and if we're feeling complicated, I might break us into two breakout rooms to do two different things. Just to get every… because you're in two separate spots. Right, because…
Ekko: Breakout rooms. I like those.
Finnan: We did that at the beginning of the Dunmark campaign.
unknown_speaker: that way.
Finnan: Every now. Yeah. Like, the very f- the very first adventure.
DM: session.
Finnan: breakout.
unknown_speaker: Yeah.
Finnan: Session, a breakout room with each one of you for the intros.
unknown_speaker: South. Let me just turn on… sorry, the…
Finnan: Good.
DM: For as long as anybody remembers, the Great Chasm has split Simcova like a wound, an impossible cleft that plunges into endless depths, from which strangeness typically emerges. Spires of impossible buildings, unexpected lights, storms and winds that seem to defy gravity, and unusual and unseasonable plants that the Kenku sometimes harvest. Although many in the region see it as the home of Zephya, the cruel west wind of Zimcovan legends, not all do. The Kenku monks of the Kameko Monastery see it as a place of safety and refuge, where they can train unwatched by the outside world, and safe from danger. And the mystics of the Vehovacai believe the chasm is a place of elemental balance and great power. The summer of 1729 in Zimkova started fine and fair, but by late August. Rumors of an orcish horde led by a fearsome orc calling herself the Ravenger of Winter.
unknown_speaker: had started to spread across Breva.
DM: In early September, the news came. A great battle had been fought north of the chasm between the dwarves of Nizdihar, apparently aided by a large contingent of Stoneborne and the orcish horde. The Ravager was killed, and the bulk of the orcs were defeated.
unknown_speaker: But scattered bands fled south to Breva like angry wasps, and the Mezai, the Woodswalkers.
DM: And many others were kept busy defending the people from these scattered orc hordes.
unknown_speaker: So few noticed as the first signs came of the chasm changing. A summer thunderstorm, thick and warm, burst forth from the chasm in October. But this had happened before, and although it wasn't common, no one really remarked on it. A sandstorm, thick and dry, with scorching heat, came out of the chasm in November. A boulder of volcanic stone, a flame with green fire, tumbled down the river that flows out of the chasm and floated all the way to the green sea, unquenched by water. That was remarked on as mighty strange.
DM: In December, a rainbow appeared. That stretched across the sky over the chasm, and a day later, it shattered into hundreds of thousands of glass shards that drifted to the ground across the chasm and fell in. That was widely seen as an omen, but few could say what it meant. When the rainbow sign was followed by a living sheet of ice that swam out of the chasm and left behind… and swam down the teft, the main river, like a predator, leaving behind dead fish and… frozen banks in its wake, many in Breva began to believe Xyphia was angry, and the chasm needed to be appeased. And then, at the start of January, the sky above the chasm turned black, and held darkness, blotting out the sun over the chasm, like a huge dark cloud on the horizon. For 5 days and nights. And so, on January 8th.
unknown_speaker: of 1730.
DM: Two weeks before Quintarim, the Sambaran feast day of the Wanderer.
unknown_speaker: The Veho Vacai gathered some of their wisest mystics and sent them, with a few of the warriors of the Comeca, to investigate They…
DM: What might be going on?
unknown_speaker: It's now January…
DM: 22nd. More than two weeks have passed, and none have returned.
DM: So, I'm gonna break out Tim and… let's see… create two… three breakout rooms. So, Dave and Eric are in one… Wait. Tim, where are you? I can't add you to a breakout room.
DM: Are you also a host?
Eolo: Maybe he can…
DM: Can you add yourself to room 2?
Finnan: Yeah.
Ekko: Sorry, we join the rooms, and what happens?
DM: So, I'm kicking off each group of you separately, so just join the breakout room, and then we'll rejoin. I'll join, I'll sequentially go through each room.
DM: Wait, did… Eric and Kong don't seem to have closed. Why is nobody here? But…
Finnan: No, it's just timing. They, they need to…
DM: Okay.
Finnan: It gives you 60 seconds for the rooms to close if you don't hit the.
DM: Oh, oh, okay, I see. They have 34 seconds to join.
Jrain: Blow Zoom response time, come on, guys.
Finnan: It'll kick them back in 34 seconds, but they're not… they're probably just chatting and didn't notice.
DM: Right.
DM: So everybody just… I'll tell this to them when they come, but as you… oh, here they are. Okay. So, it's all white, you can't see anything. As you fall, You can keep your armor. One thing that you can clutch to your chest, and one thing in each hand. So you have to pick what you're keeping. From your equipment. I mean, you could clutch a backpack to your chest if you have nothing else you want to clutch.
Finnan: We need to open roll party. Mike?
DM: What?
Ekko: Do we need to roll… open roll 20?
DM: I'm gonna run… combat just in D&D Beyond. There's a map in D&D Beyond. I'll send you a link when we get to it. So, as you fall. I mean, I assume, Eric, you are probably clutching your quiver… Yes. …and your two crossbows, right?
Eolo: Yes, I was just thinking that that's not really any other option for that, yeah.
DM: Yeah. So you end up with no equipment except your quiver and your two crossbows, so you wouldn't… you wouldn't have… you'd have to find the dag… you wouldn't have a dagger.
Eolo: And should I… what do I do on my character sheet?
DM: you shouldn't… .
Finnan: Do you have any equipment that's not a crossbow, or…
DM: If you have any equipment on your character sheet that's not a crossbow or your armor, delete it.
Eolo: Okay.
DM: Except the quiver, keep the quiver.
Eolo: I deleted my dagger.
DM: Yeah, I think that was your only piece of equipment that wasn't…
Eolo: backpack full of stuff. Do I delete that, too?
DM: Delete that. No, you can't… your backpack goes flying off in the storm, because you're clutching your quiver, not your backpack.
Eolo: How do I do that? Okay.
DM: M…
Eolo: Delete.
DM: And Echo doesn't have any equipment, so there's nothing for you to lose. You just… you just have your, you know, ring your… you have your amulet of the storm, of the… your amulet of your beast form, and whatever armor you're wearing.
Ekko: Amulited. Might not happen.
DM: Amlet of the Moon. There you go. You're Amlet of the Moon. And you probably should have armor. Yeah.
Ekko: Plate, plate mail? No, you can't wear a plate.
Finnan: Something like.
Ekko: leather?
Finnan: You want something like a breastplate, something that doesn't slow you down too much.
DM: Yeah. And then…
Finnan: Not a breastplate.
Ekko: Breastplate? Alright.
DM: Schwartz, I assume Justice would keep your axe and your shield and your armor, but you could clutch a third thing. You could keep something else.
Justas: Hey! I…
DM: Might not.
Justas: I don't know, like, I think it would… I could clutch that backpack.
DM: Good.
Justas: Yeah.
DM: Good!
Justas: I'll clutch it. I'm strong.
DM: Yeah, you are. But I'm gonna look at what's in your backpack. Some random things from your backpack are gonna vanish. You don't have that much in your backpack.
Ekko: Alright. Traveling late this year.
Jrain: I'll clutch my bow if I can manage to clutch a quiver at the same time as my bow, I will, otherwise I'll just have to deal with ammunition.
DM: You have… you have two hands, so you can have a quiver… you could clutch your… your cloak, you probably need to hold onto, or it's gonna fly off. So you probably want to clutch your cloak, and then you can hold a bow in one hand and a quiver in another, and lose your sword. Or you could… Clutch your bow and your sword and lose your quiver.
Finnan: You don't need a sword.
Jrain: What? What if I clutch my bow and my cloak and hold her hand? I'm very worried about her.
DM: Oh, that's true. If you wanna… if you wanna try and hold her hand, you might not have 3 things. You could lose your… you could lose your quiver, too. You might have to lose your quiver, too. You could, you could, you could keep a couple arrows. Tell you what, you have 10 eras. But you have to keep track of 10… your individual 10 errors.
Finnan: I'm keeping track of your errands for you, sweetie.
Jrain: The scholastic one in the party.
DM: Yeah.
Finnan: Well, no. Well, last night, when we were working on our character, I was helping Kate add equipment, and I was like, we should add arrows, and Kate rolled her eyes and said, I'm not gonna have to keep track of ammunition, am I?
DM: Bam.
Finnan: And I thought, Mike won't care about that.
DM: Okay, so I deleted a few things from Justice's backpack that randomly fell out, but you have what's left. You have everything else. And then, Tim, Finian's… What's Finian keeping?
Finnan: I'm… as I fall, I'm… grabbing my… Little, ocarina, my clay pipe, and my fiddle in one hand, and… Clutching my writing case. And if my cloak… I mean, if my cloak blows off, that's fine. I assume my rings aren't gonna disappear.
DM: Yeah, yeah, your rings, you don't have to do any. Your rings, you keep. But you can keep one thing in one hand, one thing in another hand. You're keeping both of your music.
Finnan: Middle arena.
DM: Okay.
Finnan: And…
DM: So, Finney is letting… yeah, okay.
Ekko: So…
DM: No, you have your fiddle, your ocarina, your writing case. Okay. So, I don't mind me.
Finnan: I don't need weapons.
DM: That's true.
Finnan: Instruments are my weapons.
DM: okay. So, you can delete your whole backpack then, Tim.
Finnan: I did already.
DM: There we go. Okay. Say you land.
Finnan: Can you start the music, Mike?
DM: I just did, isn't… I wasn't not playing through the…
Finnan: It's not shared, you have to reshare it.
DM: Okay.
Ekko: Okay.
DM: Advanced…
