Eolo: YOLO looks around and says, well. Thank goodness I was here. My name is Yolo.
Ekko: You already said that. You already introduced yourself earlier.
Finnan: Oh, well…
Ekko: You don't have to save your name twice, and live once, you can just save your name once. And live once.
Finnan: Finn and Finn and… there's still two Finnans, walks over, and both Finns give YOLO a little bow. com… And he says.
Finnan: That was good shooting.
Eolo: Thank you. Looks like you did some good work yourself.
Finnan: no, we'll see. I… I was caught a little unprepared there.
Eolo: Yeah, don't.
Finnan: I'm gonna laugh, though.
Eolo: Oh, yeah, how's she doing?
unknown_speaker: She's… so she's currently, like.
DM: Kinda cowered on the ground, like, huddled in a little ball, like…
unknown_speaker: Ow.
DM: Oh, you healed her, so she's not dead or anything. But she's like… Actually, is the combo motion still… you didn't…
Finnan: Never lost concentration, it lasts for a minute, so… Okay.
DM: It has another 30 seconds or so. That was only 3 rounds of combat. So she's kind of looking around, like. She kind of slowly looks up, clearly the calm of motion is still… calming her. But she… she still looks… really… uncertain.
Finnan: I, I will… I will say to YOLO and, like, nod. Kind of at the polar bear, I would love to speak more, but I am afraid when this spell ends. this woman is going to be terrified, and I think we must get whatever we can out of her in these 30 seconds we have. And so I will turn back to her and say, in Old Zenkoven. What is this place? Why are you so afraid? In my best, sort of, calming, like… You know, getting stories out of people's voices.
unknown_speaker: Okay.
DM: Make a charisma check with proficiency.
Finnan: Sorry, I just made the, Okay, I'm debating… no, I don't need to use luck on this, that's fine. 14 plus 3, so…
unknown_speaker: plus charisma, so 21.
DM: So, she kinda looks up. And only, only… she's talking in this ancient language that nobody understands except Finian and justice, but, she kind of… Looks up at you a little bit, like… like… puzzled. And says, sorry, remind me what you asked her?
Finnan: what is this place? Why are you still afraid? But the basic question is just, like, tell me your story.
DM: Right.
Eolo: Hmm.
Finnan: Why are you here? What happened?
DM: She… she walks around at this…
unknown_speaker: at this place.
DM: And the ice bridges, and… you can see, like, just this sinking… Sensation in her eyes, like… Like, sort of… just… just almost a life draining out of her. She's not terrified, she's clearly underselling her reaction, but she says. I'm… back. nobody…
unknown_speaker: Nobody escapes.
DM: And yet, Somehow I did. And now I'm back?
Finnan: Back where?
unknown_speaker: She sort of points around, and she says.
DM: Zephyr is home… Zephy… What's the… what's the name? Ziphers! Zifa's Labyrinth. You do not know? You speak our tongue, yet you don't know the stories?
Finnan: I assume I know several… many stories about Zagbutt's Labyrinth, unless they're completely lost, okay.
DM: I've never heard of Cyphus.
Finnan: I'm gonna fake it and say… of course I know the stories, and I'm gonna just try to take my fiddle and just pluck on it a little bit, just, like, starting to sort of improvise a little bit of a tune. And I'm gonna tell her, but I'm… I'm here to… I've come here to write down the songs. And yours specifically are ones I have not heard.
DM: Mike, is this safe for the West Wind? Yeah. The cruel west wind.
Justas: I'll say that in, is Old Zenkoven a spoken language still? Yeah. Like, people still talk about it?
DM: So, like, way up in the mountains, like, in the foothills of the Sentinels, on the fringes of civilization, there's occasionally, like, little tribes. Remember the Braugaldi from… Dunbar, the people north of Ersk. The old Zimcovas are kind of related to them. They're not the same… they don't turn into animals in the same way and stuff like that, but…
unknown_speaker: Very few.
DM: Like, you would have met a few people here and there on your travels that spoke it, but nobody in Breva still speaks it. It's more of a lost language from the… from the local… Though it'd be surprising to see somebody speaking it. They're few and far between.
Justas: Let's just a… I'll chime in to say, over Finnen, Zifa the Cruel West Wind, I've… met many, many, many of the Gestavo in this land, but I've never known that Ziva had a home.
unknown_speaker: So you would know, I mean, the story is that Sifa lives in the castle.
DM: You've never totally believed.
Justas: Sorry, nevermind.
DM: Yeah, you would, like…
unknown_speaker: There's a… there's a myth, a legend, that.
Justas: Well, I'll say then, I never really believed that Sif Alif lived in the chasm.
DM: The chasm? she says.
Justas: What year is it?
DM: We don't… We don't count the years.
unknown_speaker: It's been… 7…
DM: Seven by seven by seven generations since we came to this land.
unknown_speaker: Or so the grandfathers say.
unknown_speaker: But…
Finnan: I'll… I'll try and riff off Justin a little and say, when she's talking about the grandfathers. And they must have stories and songs.
DM: They tell the…
unknown_speaker: They tell of a great… Cataclysm that changed the face of the Earth. And… Well… We… we hid from that cataclysm.
DM: Many, many years ago, 7x7x7… I mean, you would probably recognize 7x7x7 is almost certainly just…
Justas: many.
DM: Many, right? Like, they probably… it's not really 21 generations, right? A great cataclysm shook the earth. The swamp strained away. the… The seas changed.
Finnan: So I'm… fucking a little bit on my fiddle as well, and trying to get her to just, like, keep…
unknown_speaker: I'm sort of…
Finnan: Turning this into a little bit of a song as she begins to talk.
DM: And we came to this land to hide from the great cataclysm.
unknown_speaker: But…
DM: But Zifel is here waiting. We did not know. It was their home. And now… Now Zypha demands appeasement. With their labyrinth. No one escapes.
Justas: And yet, you got out once before.
Justas: Or seemed to.
DM: She says, sorry, I'm sending Tim a little message. Yes, obviously. Okay. The… Yes.
unknown_speaker: She sort of looks around all of a sudden and shrieks.
DM: No, it starts just saying, no, no!
unknown_speaker: I can't.
DM: No, and it's, like, just, like, huddled, like, collapses in a ball, and it started just repeating.
unknown_speaker: The Comb Emotions Act.
Finnan: Yeah.
-- The Beast, The Maze, The Kestavo ---
DM: I… she started… she sort of…
unknown_speaker: I…
DM: I can't go in again. The only way out is in, and I can't go in again. No. And just, like, just, like, muttering, like, just, like, saying again and again in, in, in sort of terror.
DM: The beast, she says.
Finnan: Sorry, what?
DM: She says, the beast. And sort of shakes her head. If you find the beast. It… it… she sort of looks at the… looks at the… the fallen, cracked ice. Maybe you… You could… you could kill it, maybe, but I… no. And… hides again, like, in a ball.
Finnan: I'm still just trying to, you know. walking at my fiddle a little bit and just trying to get, like, a soothing vibe going, but I'm pretty pessimistic that that's going to… Too much, just not, like, totally ready to give up on her.
unknown_speaker: Go ahead and roll… I don't know. I mean, yeah, you'd have proficiency in this, so sure, roll another charisma check. I can't understand a word of what's going on, but I've been with her for a while, so I'm just sort of sitting next to her reassuringly as I can.
Finnan: So… 19?
Jrain: Like a scared wild animal.
DM: Kate, roll a… do you have… wait, does your background have any… you have, like, a wild animal. I forget what your narrative proficiencies are. What did you write down?
Finnan: Diplomacy, bringing messages…
DM: Anything about calming…
Finnan: move.
DM: Calming frightened people? Not really, right?
Jrain: No, that was…
Finnan: No.
Jrain: It was not one, just connecting with animals.
DM: Wolf. Nevermind, then. Damn.
Finnan: Right.
DM: So she… she seems, I mean, she's… she's, like, huddled in a heap, and seems completely unwilling to… like, Shola, you could certainly coax a few… She seems to have a connection with Finian. You could certainly coax maybe a few… a few small facts out of her, if there was specific questions and you, like, took a few minutes to, like, try and repeat the question and, like, calm her down, but she seems like… Like, just in complete despair and kind of huddled on the floor, like… Totally unsure of what to even do next.
Finnan: So, I am going to… Just leave her… She's huddled in a… in a… like, crouched down, right?
DM: Yeah, yeah, yeah, she's, like, curled up around herself, like, hugging.
Finnan: I will just gently tell her that she's… You know, she's safe for now, and… I will use Minor Illusion to create on top of her a… An image of… Like, the inside of… whatever I can, like, think of as a, you know, a house of… Maybe whatever the, like. cottage in the… in the sort of far north looked like, but it's only 5 feet, so this is basically sitting in front of a hearth with 5 feet of light, and then it's all sort of darkness around. Just to try and give her a safe place so that we can talk.
DM: Okay.
Justas: I think I'll.
Finnan: And I'll just keep that going, just, like, plucking on my fiddle to keep the illusion going, so recasting the cantrip every minute.
unknown_speaker: Try swing, are you gonna say?
Justas: Yeah, I'll go looking among, like, all the different, like, charms and relics and symbols of the Kestavo that I've accumulated over the years for something from the high mountains, like, something that I might guess at her being familiar with based on, sort of, dress and speech and… Anything short?
DM: Church.
Justas: But where she's from.
DM: There's a… there's a famous, well-known Kestavo called Rommel, the Glacier King, who is supposed to live on the highest peak of the Sentinels, but is also supposed to have a very ancient provenance, and, like, is the old, you know, is… Was here when the people first came, kind of thing.
Justas: Yeah, I'll find, like, deep, sort of in the bottom of a pocket, there's, it's a piece of, sea glass that's blue, like, different shades of blue, that looks like a piece of glacial ice that's a symbol for him, and I'll put it in her hands. Say a few words over it.
DM: She kind of clutches it gratefully for a moment, and then kind of looks at you and says. There are no Kestavo here.
Justas: Well, we'll find our way back then.
DM: I can't… I mean, you actually know this is not true. You at least have enough connection to them to cast your magic, but she says, they cannot… they cannot hear our prayers here. We are too far away.
unknown_speaker: I'll say…
Justas: I think we may not be too far, and I'll cast light on that little relic thing.
DM: Okay.
Justas: Glows in her hands and say it's… The Glacier King. Whose power makes this shine.
unknown_speaker: Even here.
DM: She kind of clutches it pretty gratefully, like, clutching it close to her and kind of looking at the hearth and is, like, singing a little lullaby to herself, which you've never heard before. It's… it's clearly… not related, doesn't sound related to any of the songs you've collected, right? Like, it seems like a totally different style of vocal arrangement, right? Like, you would actually… Finian's sense would be it's not even a clear derivative, like, it's clearly very different, right? And it's sort of, like, calming down a little bit, but is still, like, pretty… despairing about her future. But again, you could probably coax a few questions out of her if you had specific questions you wanted to ask.
Finnan: At this point, though, I think I will turn. For the rest of the group. And… start to tell the story. Oh, perfect, Kong's back. Kong. Are you still a polar bear?
Finnan: I guess you can understand us if you're a polar bear.
Ekko: I'll hang out to polar bears still, why not?
Finnan: So… so I'm… Finn and Justice have just been talking to the woman, and now she is… Slightly calm. And Finan will turn to the group. And, changes the tune on his fiddlest lady, and will begin to tell a story. of… The land as it used to be. back when the Oaks Dreads first… traveled the Green Sea, and I'll stop, and I'll say that Duplicate has disappeared now, I'll say. I'm sorry we weren't properly introduced before. I'm Finnan Oakstride.
Finnan: I am… Quite interested to hear your stories. But let me tell you a story first, what I think we learned from this woman, and I'll begin to tell the tale of A long time ago, like, a couple thousand years ago. Before the big empire in the South, Drancor even existed. All this… most of this land was… swamps.
unknown_speaker: There was a great lizardfolk empire, and that's, in his family legend, anyway, that's when the first.
Finnan: Oak Strides. came to the Green Sea. And where is not remembered, or at least he is not willing to tell you. And he says, I think this woman, which she seems to be saying is her people. fled the Great War. ago, not the Great War that we call the Great War, but the Great War that's now Kind of forgotten from many of the stories. The Great War, at the end of which… Land changed, and the swamps dried out, and the lizardfolk sweat, and… I guess the mountains maybe shifted. The myths are confused on this point, exactly what happened.
unknown_speaker: But maybe it was when the chasm…
Finnan: came to be. We don't know. But she says her people…
unknown_speaker: Hid here from that war.
Finnan: generations and generations ago. And the only way out is through some kind of maze.
Finnan: So, and he gives another short little strum on his fiddle, sort of a dramatic ending. I guess it's a story for how to meet somebody. It's hard to top that.
Ekko: Wait, so are you saying she's thousands of years old?
DM: Twitter.
Finnan: Well, her people have been here thousands of years.
DM: She said, like, Herb. The, you know, grandfather's grandfather's 7x7 generations came in here ages ago, not implying that she was that old. Right. There's some people, she's… she's talking about some people.
Finnan: Finan's interpreting this as… yeah.
DM: I mean, Kong, Echo has never heard of any humans living in the chasm.
Ekko: Yeah, this is weird.
DM: Totally weird, super weird. Like, you've never heard of any such thing as humans living in the chasm. But she seems to be implying she lives here, or near here.
Ekko: Okay, so this is all great, and… Sorry, my Zoom… Is my internet… was I freezing?
DM: You froze a little bit, yeah.
