Ekko: So apologies for my friend here for, both starting and ending that.
unknown_speaker: That's.
Ekko: battle, but .
unknown_speaker: Who?
Ekko: Who, who are you all? What… what is going on here? What are… what's, what is… what is this? What is this place? Where… where… where… who are, who are all of you? Why are you here?
Jrain: Do I? Recognize him? Do I know that there are… Okay. But I know…
DM: You know the Kenku, right? You know… you know… you've been to the Kameku Monastery plenty of times, you recognize Kenku, right? You just have never met either of these two Kenku specifically.
Jrain: You're giving the impression that you're one of the Kenku from Kameka. I'm not sure. If we've ever met, but I've… Been called here to… help, find someone who could talk to this woman. She crawled out of the chasm recently in all of this craziness. And nobody could understand her.
Ekko: So…
Jrain: So, justice and…
Ekko: Go ahead, sorry.
Jrain: So, Justice and Finn… We're called to come and talk to her. We weren't here when the magic storm brought us here, but… We were coming to… they were coming specifically to talk to her and find out her story. Because she seems to have come out of the chasm.
Ekko: But who are you?
Jrain: I'm just a local messenger. I… I've been, fighting most recently against the orcs and coordinating the battles that have Been cleaning up after. All of that, ravager. Mess.
Ekko: What do you know of the monastery?
Jrain: I'm not a frequent visitor, I've just… Noah… no, it's a place where, people… your… Your, group lives. I know very little about what you do.
Eolo: Hmm.
unknown_speaker: That's where I'm headed.
Eolo: But, does anyone know where we are now?
Justas: No.
Finnan: I suspect… In the chasm.
Eolo: to change.
Ekko: Maybe.
Justas: Although, the old woman also said we're in the West Winds Labyrinth right now, which maybe is in the chasm?
DM: Mike, can you change the music?
Finnan: Yeah, that's not the best playlist for this. That's like, you know, sitting around camp music.
DM: Yeah, yeah, no, it got… sorry, I… I had a combat playlist, but then it got away from me, let me put so…
Ekko: No, you're good, you're good, you're good. The music actually was fine, it was just the, the, the harmonizing,
DM: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Ekko: Yeah. Yes. So… I don't know any of you or your history with the Chasm, but I've… Chasm is… is… both. A home and a place to be. Very, very… Aware of, and alert of, too. Echo will have a look up at the… Echo will kind of, in a jump, he'll, like… he's still a bear, a bear, has been sitting there, kind of like, you know. Licking his paws and just kinda, you know, scratching himself. It's sort of like, this is so much better as a bear.
Eolo: That is…
Ekko: And then, he, he, he jumps up, and, like, again, like, does this kind of, like, barrel flip, and then turns into a, into a, back into a Kenku. And, Tim, you're… so this… or sorry, huh, reflex. Mike, so this, the sky, like, you know how you said the sky is all white? Is it, like, like, white as far as the eye-can-see, like, end-to-end type of thing? Like, what's the.
DM: Wow, it's dark, so you can really…
Eolo: our kids.
DM: it's real dark, right? So you can really only see the, like, 40 feet ahead… like, the area right above you, where the… the white spell is, right? But what you see when you look straight up is a dense snowstorm. Right? Like, it looks like the storm you fell through. Like, really intense winds, strong… strong…
Ekko: I'm gonna ask… I'm gonna ask you a spiritual question. So, you know, again, this is… does… For… from all of Echo's intuition, are we inside the chasm right now?
Eolo: Hmm.
DM: Echo!
Ekko: Chevron, can I check or something?
DM: Sure, roll of wisdom. Roll wisdom. Add your proficiency. Well, say one of your, background proficiencies is, is, is… one of your narrative proficiencies is… The War of the chasm.
Ekko: Alright, so I'm just rolling Wisdom… is it plus 4?
DM: Wisdom plus… roll your wisdom, which is plus… roll a D20 and add 7.
Ekko: Okay. Oh, at 7.
DM: Okay, I rolled… well, I rolled an 18, so plus 7 is 25. Echo feels… You can't explain why. But you feel like something's wrong with this place. It doesn't… it doesn't… feel like the chasm. It doesn't feel like wet, like, the biggest thing you can point to is looking up at the sky. It doesn't feel like weather, it doesn't really look like a sky. Okay. Right? It actually looks more like a spell. Okay. When you look at it, right? And it just… it bothers you. You can't put it together.
Ekko: So, it actually doesn't necessarily feel like… we could not be in the chasm.
DM: you could potentially not be… I mean, you can't really explain how you would fall into the chasm and then not be in the chasm.
Ekko: Got it, perfect, perfect. Yeah, so Echo, Echo, like, you know, flips, flips into a bird, hovers there for a second, is kind of, like, looking around, is like. I know this place well, and when I say this place, I mean the chasm. It's hard to explain, but… Everything… I'm guessing all of us would guess, would be that we fell in here. I know Echo and I, or Yolo and I certainly fell in here, but… Wherever the here is, I don't think we're in the chasm.
Finnan: Steve, you see my message?
Jrain: For us, it didn't feel like falling. We were outside at the camp just north of the chasm. And a big storm hit, and just… could have whisked us up into the sky, as far as we know, or off to a distant mountain. Like, it just transported us, it didn't really feel like falling. Into the chasm. But I thought, since she said. she was back here with… I assume you conveyed that general language. In your storytelling. Fit in? Yes. Since she said she was back here, and my knowledge of where she was most recently is in the chasm, and she crawled out. That we must be in the chasm.
Ekko: I don't… I'm not…
Eolo: Dune.
Ekko: Chasm.
Jrain: Well, maybe she wasn't either, but she somehow got from wherever this is to the chasm, and managed to crawl out of the chasm. which is what I want to learn how to do, because I'm very worried about the Beko Vahai party, Adrikas and Pecrynic, who… Did disappear in here.
DM: And Drikas, by the way, is a name you… that's your mentor.
Ekko: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Wait, you know Rodriguez?
Jrain: Yes, I was sending birds to watch their progress as they… ventured into the chasm to try to figure out what was wrong, and so when the giant cloud of steam…
Ekko: Sending birds? Like, are you talking about us, or what are you, what are you…
unknown_speaker: What kind of.
Jrain: No, not… not, kenku. Little birds.
Eolo: Don't call me.
Ekko: I mean, you just referred to us as that group earlier, and now you're talking about… anyways, it's fine, don't worry about it.
DM: Somebody has to be racist to somebody in every game we play.
Ekko: She called us the group. I don't know what group she's referring to.
Jrain: Do I know that you're a religious group? The monks, or what?
DM: No, you, you know the… you… you actually would have known, you know the, the Vehovaca as well. You wouldn't, you wouldn't, you wouldn't, you'd be… there are no, as far as you know, there are no Kenku who are part of the Vehovaca. Bate.
unknown_speaker: I assume that the Kenko are a part of the Kameko Monastery.
DM: But the Mystic group is not unknown to you.
Jrain: So, I think that… I assumed that you were part of the Comeco and their religious practices. If you know, pocrinic… then…
Ekko: I don't know.
Jrain: or…
Ekko: assume a lot.
Jrain: Well, I'm worried about them, because I last saw them in danger.
Ekko: You know, you know, Adrikas?
Jrain: Adrikas was being accompanied by Pakrynnek. And all of the Veho vacai We're hoping that they were their best chance as a party to figure out what was going on down here. But we needed to follow their adventures. to… keep communication flowing. And as a messenger. I do that by talking to Birds who would normally be without speech, but with whom I can… Bond and communicate. And so, those… messengers. Go back and forth. I also have a close friend, Rala, who… I hope… will come back to me in… in the morning. Who can take the shape of a bird and… and voyage. So…
Ekko: What needs to have of the group?
Jrain: the last that I saw of them, there was a horrible hot storm of… painfully hot mist that… that killed my friend Rolla. And… I hope that those with arts and skills evaded its… Fiery… not fiery, hot.
unknown_speaker: Smoky, steamy. F.
Jrain: effects. But I don't know, and I am worried.
Eolo: Hmm…
Ekko: I share your worry.
Eolo: The storms here are coming. Different flavors. You know, strange.
Jrain: is steam… Shards of rainbows.
Ekko: What have you, Large Man?
Justas: What of me? My… my story, or my thoughts on… Where we are and where to go.
Ekko: Why are you here?
Justas: Well, I was traveling with the halfling. We were coming because we'd heard of her come out of the chasm.
Eolo: I'm one of the…
Justas: Keepers of the Gustavo's houses, the spirits who live in this land all over.
Ekko: Mike, what are the custavas houses? Did I know about those?
DM: So you would know, but yeah, so the cassavo are the local religion. It's basically a sort of small gods tradition, where the idea is that there's, like, a god in every… a little god in a brook, or in a tree, or in a mountain, or in a… in a… waterfall, or… and so… and people sort of build little shrines to the different small gods in these different little places, and worship them, and it's kind of the… it's faded a bit, because the Mas Numina, like, the Eight Divines religion, has kind of come up from Sambara, and is… A more powerful set of gods, and so it's not as widespread as it was, but… They would… you would know. I mean, it's the local religion. You would think of it kind of like, sort of… Shinto, Japanese… With God.
Ekko: Sounds very shitty, yeah.
DM: Yeah.
Ekko: What's the relationship between those and the Mystics? Is it, like, mutual?
DM: I think… I think, I think they… I think they are friend… like, I think a lot of the mystics might see the Chasm as kind of, related to the Gestavo in a way, right? Like, some of them probably even believe that Gustavo… one of the vibes of the mystics is that… one of the stories in the local area is that Sophia, this evil spirit, the cruel west wind who has to be appeased. To keep from stealing your crops and your children, and so on, right? is… lives in the chasm. But the… and so some of the Gestavo worshippers actually believe that, and are very negative. And the Vahio, the Feja Vaikai are anti that. They're like, no, the chasm is part of the world that has these… this elemental balance to it. But probably some of your compatriot mystics would believe that actually there are custod, like, there are religious… gods, who are… pro-human, like, you know, not this kind of evil, cruel West Wind who live in the chasm. Others might think it's unrelated to the gods, but it's either… either friendly or neutral. Not… there's no conflict between the mystics.
Ekko: I see, I see, okay. Okay. Yeah. Echo, Echo, like, like, relaxes a bit. It's like… Gustavo, haven't seen… seen you around here. In a bit, one of you here.
Justas: No, I don't… I've never been to the monastery itself, though I've met.
unknown_speaker: More than a handful of…
Justas: Kenku trained there over the years?
Eolo: What are they like?
Justas: Thoughtful.
DM: Although, remember, like, come back at the monastery, the Cancun monastery is, like, The battle-hardened, like…
Ekko: Monastery is a weird word to use for that.
DM: It's a weird word, right? It's not really a monastery, right? It's like a…
Ekko: It's a trip.
DM: It's a, it's like a… it's like a, it's like a barracks.
Ekko: Yeah, that's exactly what it is.
DM: It's really like the… so… so, the Veho Vaika, the mystics that Echo is part of, don't live in the monastery, right? Kameko, you guys live, like, away a bit from the chasm. You come to the chasm, but you don't live, like, on… it's, like, too sacred of a space to live, like, on its shore, right? On its edge. You, like, live a little downstream. The monastery is, like, a Kenku barracks.
Ekko: where they.
DM: They, like, train in aerial fighting in the chasm to be, like, to keep alive the deadly arts that Eren taught the Kenku in the Great War, because you have to keep alive the deadly arts.
Jrain: But they do that in a chasm so not everybody knows it, so do we think they're just a bunch of peaceful birds who… excuse me… Oh, oh!
Ekko: Bunch of birds!
DM: It's possible that some… some people… I mean, the Comeco are… they're… they're… Got that one for you.
Justas: Hashtag not all humans.
Ekko: I'm gonna huff up my feathers now.
DM: Now, that…
Ekko: My feathers all up in a huff.
DM: The Comeco is, like… they're very… they're fairly secretive, right? They would probably… there'd be all kinds of stories about what they really are. You would know, you've been there. Like, like, and listen, Kenzo. Echo, like, grew up there. You know they're, like, a battle-hearted group of warriors. You don't really care about the chasm, other than… it's a place to train, right?
Ekko: It's a sweet place to train. Yeah, that's like… that's like their… that's like the hashtag, a sweet place to train.
DM: Exactly.
Jrain: Whereas my impression is that they're some sort of… religious group, because they live in the chasm away from everybody else. So I've been calling them monks and, like, not knowing what they do, because it's mysterious.
Ekko: Echoed the whole time is like, humans are weird. You think that they're religious, and you think they're thoughtful? This is a very strange group of humans.
Jrain: Clearly, we've never met the Kenku of… that…
Justas: barracks. Thoughtful in the sense of not being rash. Not… they're not impulsive, like…
DM: Yeah, that's true. Yeah, no, I don't think they're impulsive.
Justas: Warriors aren't gonna, like, rush into… like, that sort of discipline is not to be fucked with, but, like, they're not gonna go out seeking people to fuck with.
DM: Yeah, I think, I think they're very disciplined. I think they're, like, they're almost more like, they're like, you know, they drill, they, like, have just, you know, they're, they're, they're keeping a, you know, they're definitely.
Justas: Justice will amend it. Disciplined is a better word.
Ekko: Discipline, that is very good, yeah.
Eolo: Like… like me.
Finnan: Yes.
DM: Not, not like me.
Finnan: So, how did you end up in here? Looking at the polar bear.
Ekko: I'm not a bird. I flipped up.
Finnan: Oh, okay, looking at the… Echo.
Ekko: Well, Well, wherever here is, I'm not sure where here is totally, but we'll get to that in a moment, but…
Finnan: Yeah.
Ekko: The, the chasm, I… The short version of the story is that I lived at the monastery. I was born, and I lived in the monastery, and know it well, but Well, this wasn't quite for me, so… What's the name of the Mystics again, Mike?
DM: the Veho Vaikai?
Ekko: You know of the veil of Ichai.
Finnan: I assume I would, no. Yeah, yeah, yeah. They're not…
Jrain: Everybody knows them.
DM: They're not.
Jrain: secretive.
DM: Well, they're a little secretive.
Ekko: Yeah.
DM: They're not really a little secretive.
Ekko: Yeah. Right?
DM: But…
Finnan: print some tails.
DM: Yeah.
Ekko: Yeah, I… I… I live… I live amongst them, with them, and they've… It's home there. It's home there with them. Humans I trust. They're not looking at as bad. And.
Finnan: I guess I was more curious what brought you to this place now.
Ekko: Oh, yeah, that's just more, Trying to help my friend here. We were trying to… we were headed to the monastery, and then… Got hit by that storm. I mean, there's all kinds of strange weather here you need to be prepared for and ready for, but… Whatever that was, was… Whatever the normal level of unusual and chaos is related to the chasm, that definitely was… more unusual. But we were just on our way to the monastery.
Finnan: And you were also caught in a storm, which you couldn't see through?
Ekko: That's right. Same, same for yourself?
Finnan: We were about to speak to this woman, and Finnan nods over at the… the Zimcoven woman, who is presumably still huddled by the illusory hearth. This whole time, Finnan's been sort of plucking on his fiddle a little bit, maintaining this illusion. We were about to speak to her when… A great wind and storm of snow. Grabbed us, and… Dragged us somewhere. But I begin to wonder if this really is the chasm.
Ekko: I'm not sure that it is. How many of you been to the Chasm?
Finnan: Not below the river.
Ekko: YouTube, looking at the two at two other humans.
Finnan: I'm not human, I'm a halfling.
Ekko: I know, the two… sorry, the two humans.
Finnan: Yeah.
Justas: You can tell by his height, mostly.
Justas: It… Have we never in the chasm? you know, I've seen it from different… Parts of it from a distance. I know the contours of the place, but never in.
Ekko: Yeah.
Jrain: I have business in Comeco from time to time.
Ekko: Hmm. Hmm. Well… And sorry if I missed this, so did you all speak to the woman, or no?
Finnan: Yeah.
Ekko: Okay, and she… and then you told the story, you're saying that…
Eolo: True. Does the monastery at Kameko Is it below the river or above it?
Ekko: Below, right?
Finnan: low.
DM: It's… it's in the cliffside, about 600 or 800 feet below the river, and you have to get there either by flying, which is the expected way, or by climbing down these giant steps that are about 25 feet tall, that then have separate steps carved into them.
Jrain: It's a lot of climbing.
Eolo: Not for everyone.
DM: I mean, it usually takes a day… usually people take 2 days to climb down, right? It's like… Probably 5,000 steps, or something like that, and you usually would camp On one of these giant steps, which is a nice little platform to camp on, and then keep going down the lake the second day.
Ekko: And, and we.
Jrain: I love a lot of climbing, but…
Ekko: We think it's the, the giants that made this, the monastery.
DM: It's certainly sized for giants. Whether they actually made it, nobody really knows.
Ekko: But is the mon… what's the… is the monastery giant-sized, or is it human-sized?
DM: No, the buildings are all big. I mean, the Kenku have restructured it to fit the Kenku, but the monastery itself is large. It's big.
Ekko: Got it. But…
DM: It's also kind of too, like, it's weird, like, nobody really can explain it, right? Like…
DM: The Kenku took over and abandoned. like, the Kenko are the only ones that anybody knows who have inhabited it, but they didn't build it. It was already there when they moved in.
Ekko: Oh, this is… this is random. The Kenku in the… in the monastery should have, like… because I was thinking about, like, ways that they do, like, insignias and, like, ranks and shit like that, because they would be all about that, and I was like, oh, maybe they… I was like, they should have blood feathers. They should have, like, you know, blood feathers for, like, different, you know, blood from different animals and stuff that they find and kill inside the chasm. And then, like, different types of, like, blood feathers in different places, like, mean different things. Cool. Also, it's a cool turn, blood feathers.
Eolo: I like it.
Finnan: So… Where do you think we are?
Ekko: Who are you looking at?
Finnan: at… sorry. It's hard when you're not in person. I'm looking at Echo, who seems to be… the most deeply connected to the chasm from the short conversation we've had.
Ekko: Do any of you, are you familiar with elemental magic, or any other magic? The reason I ask is, you know, I can't shake the feeling that Wherever we are, this is, magical in nature, and… this environment. We might be in the chasm, but… Somehow, in a… in a… In another space.
Finnan: Hmm. Familiar with magic, but more of the magic of… stories than elements. I've been collecting stories for many years now, and… I find the strands of magic in many of them. But there's… Some strange story is about the West Wind, and about… the people here… I spent a while traveling On the other side of the Sentinels, about 10 years ago. So, people there, the Denecai, who speak A language that… Sounds strangely similar to old Zimkoven, although I never quite picked up the tongue. And among the elders of the Denon Kai, there are stories about when people first came to the forests on the western slopes. And sometimes would think, The trickster fae were gods.
Finnan: It makes me wonder…
Ekko: You think the fan?
Finnan: Could be.
Ekko: Mike, have there been… have there's ever there ever been a history? Is ECHO aware of anything, aware of any fixture, FE, FEY activity around here?
DM: I don't… I think… I mean, the fey are not common. They're not… it's not like you've never heard of, sort of, fae activity, but they're not, like, a big part of, the… their experience. There are, you know, there are people who appease the cruel West Wind, and to some outsiders, it does seem kind of fey-like, in a way, right? Like, people will… people will leave out, you know. some food for the West Wind's children, right? And we'll… or will, you know, give… throw the… the best fish into the river to appease the West Winds children. And some outsiders sometimes think that is a little bit… GitHub. Fey-ish? But… but to… to the locals, most people would say, no, no, no, what are you talking about? It's the… it's the spirits of the West Wind.
Jrain: if we can get a coherent answer, I'm kind of curious what she thinks you do to appease the West Wind, because I kind of have the feeling it's more than… Throwing a fish in the river.
DM: Like I said, you could ask her, you could probably coax, like, 2 or 3 questions out of her. You could ask her.
Finnan: Oh, absolutely.
Jrain: she said that we could follow up on, as far as I'm concerned, are the only way out is in And… something about appeasing the west wind.
DM: She… she kind of… she kind of looks, like, at Finian a little bit, like… She kind of is noticing for the first time that you don't look… Human? And it's like, looks at you a second time? Kind of puzzled, like, actually, she's clearly never met a half-wife. What… and she looks at you kind of oddly for a minute, like… Wh-what are you?
Finnan: Finan will be very, like, calm and understanding and gentle, and talk about… Just, like, spin a tale about travelers and wanderers who have… Pass through the world. For many, many years, even when there were Great. Swamps in the lowlands? And will apologize that none of them have found her village yet, and… Say that he is trying to make up for that deficit and bring… Stories and songs. To her people, too. And that's what his people do.
DM: She seems… she sort of processes that, but doesn't seem too bothered, right? Like, she sort of calms… she, like, realizes, okay, I guess you're a traveler. She kind of accepts that story. She doesn't seem to have put together the two bird-like creatures as things keep talking.
Jrain: And she's not saying anything about Elo, and…
DM: Well, neither of them have tried to talk to her. She doesn't seem to be processing them as, like, humans, as sentient creatures. I mean, she doesn't… she's, like, not even really noticing she's, like, barely looking up, like, she's basically huddled like this, and kind of only looks up when Finian comes to talk to her.
Jrain: I mean, she came up into the Kamiko Monastery, though, she was…
DM: She was terrified of the Kenku, though. She wouldn't talk to them.
Jrain: Okay.
DM: Right? She, like, had no idea. She, like, was… that's one of the reasons.
Jrain: She didn't know she could talk to them. That was one of the problems.
DM: Yes, exactly. One of the… one of the challenges, and one of the reasons you left with her was because she was… thought the Kenkyu were basically monsters, like, she was totally… and probably they were all carrying their blood feathers around and be like, we killed 17 bloodhawks today, we're the coolest, right? They probably were not the most welcoming, but… She says. Sorry, go ahead.
Ekko: beans.
DM: beings.
Ekko: Just looking at the non-Kenku, like, not people, beings.
Jrain: Oh. Okay. Thank you.
Ekko: Yeah, it's alright, just so you know.
DM: She says to figure it out.
Ekko: Human-focused, that's all. Go ahead, sorry.
DM: To answer the question, she, she, she says, well, once… when the… When the sun sets.
DM: And the… and the new… and the new ones are… old enough. the West Wind demands… A sacrifice. And… and one of us… is sent. She kind of looks up. Through the cloud. Into its labyrinth.
Jrain: And after the visit, do you… well, I don't know, I can't ask questions.
DM: Hey.
DM: I do not know what she just… she looks like. The sun must have risen by now. It will be a while before the next sacrifice.
