DM: For as long as anybody remembers, the Great Chasm has split Zimkova like a wound—an impossible cleft that plunges into endless depths, from which strangeness typically emerges. Spires of impossible buildings, unexpected lights, storms and winds that seem to defy gravity, and unusual and unseasonable plants that the Kenku sometimes harvest. Although many in the region see it as the home of Zeyfa the cruel west wind of Zimkovan legends, not all do. The Kenku monks of the Kemeko Monastery see it as a place of safety and refuge, where they can train unwatched by the outside world and safe from danger. And the mystics of the Vejo Vaikai believe the chasm is a place of elemental balance and great power. The summer of 1729 in Zimkova started fine and fair, but by late August, rumors of an orcish horde led by a fearsome orc calling herself the Ravager of Winter had started to spread across Breva. In early September, the news came: a great battle had been fought north of the chasm between the dwarves of Nidzahar, apparently aided by a large contingent of Stoneborn, and the orcish horde. The Ravager was killed, and the bulk of the orcs were defeated. But scattered bands fled south to Breva like angry wasps, and the Mezhai, the Woodswalkers and many others were kept busy defending the people from these scattered orc hordes. So few noticed as the first signs came of the chasm changing. A summer thunderstorm, thick and warm, burst forth from the chasm in October. But this had happened before, and although it wasn't common, no one really remarked on it. A sandstorm, thick and dry, with scorching heat, came out of the chasm in November. A boulder of volcanic stone, aflame with green fire, tumbled down the river that flows out of the chasm and floated all the way to the Green Sea, unquenched by water. That was remarked on as mighty strange. In December, a rainbow appeared that stretched across the sky over the chasm, and a day later, it shattered into hundreds of thousands of glass shards that drifted to the ground across the chasm and fell in. That was widely seen as an omen, but few could say what it meant. When the rainbow sign was followed by a living sheet of ice that swam out of the chasm and swam down the Teft—the main river—like a predator, leaving behind dead fish and frozen banks in its wake, many in Breva began to believe Zeyfa was angry, and the chasm needed to be appeased. And then, at the start of January, the sky above the chasm turned black and held darkness, blotting out the sun over the chasm like a huge dark cloud on the horizon. For five days and nights. And so, on January 8th of 1730, two weeks before Quintarum, the Sembaran feast day of the Wanderer, the Vejo Vaikai gathered some of their wisest mystics and sent them, with a few of the warriors of the Kemeko, to investigate what might be going on? It's now January 22nd. More than two weeks have passed, and none have returned.

[breakout room intros]

DM: So everybody just… I'll tell this to them when they come, but as you—oh, here they are. Okay. So, it's all white, you can't see anything. As you fall, you can keep your armor, one thing that you can clutch to your chest, and one thing in each hand. So you have to pick what you're keeping from your equipment. I mean, you could clutch a backpack to your chest if you have nothing else you want to clutch. So, as you fall… I mean, I assume, Eric, you are probably clutching your quiver… yes… and your two crossbows, right?
Eolo: Yes, I was just thinking that there's not really any other option for that, yeah.
DM: Yeah. So you end up with no equipment except your quiver and your two crossbows, so you wouldn't—you wouldn't have—you'd have to find the dag— you wouldn't have a dagger.
DM: And Ekko doesn't have any equipment, so there's nothing for you to lose. You just… you just have your, you know, ring, your… you have your amulet of the storm—of the… your amulet of your beast form—and whatever armor you're wearing.
Ekko: Amulet of the Moon.
DM: Amulet of the Moon. There you go. Your amulet of the Moon. And you probably should have armor. Yeah.
Finnan: You want something like a breastplate, something that doesn't slow you down too much.
Ekko: Breastplate? Alright.
DM: Schwartz, I assume Justas would keep your axe and your shield and your armor, but you could clutch a third thing. You could keep something else.
Justas: I don't know, like, I think it would… I could clutch that backpack.
DM: Good.
Justas: Yeah.
DM: Good!
Justas: I'll clutch it. I'm strong.
DM: Yeah, you are. But I'm gonna look at what's in your backpack. Some random things from your backpack are gonna vanish. You don't have that much in your backpack.
Ekko: Alright. Traveling light this year.
Jrain: I'll clutch my bow. If I can manage to clutch a quiver at the same time as my bow, I will—otherwise I'll just have to deal with ammunition.
DM: You have… you have two hands, so you can have a quiver—you could clutch your… your cloak, you probably need to hold onto, or it's gonna fly off. So you probably want to clutch your cloak, and then you can hold a bow in one hand and a quiver in another, and lose your sword. Or you could clutch your bow and your sword and lose your quiver.
Finnan: You don't need a sword.
Jrain: What? What if I clutch my bow and my cloak and hold her hand? I'm very worried about her.
DM: Oh, that's true. If you wanna… if you wanna try and hold her hand, you might not have three things. You could lose your… you could lose your quiver, too. You might have to lose your quiver, too. You could—you could—you could keep a couple arrows. Tell you what: you have ten arrows. But you have to keep track of ten—your individual ten arrows.
Finnan: I'm keeping track of your arrows for you, sweetie.
Jrain: The scholastic one in the party.
DM: Yeah.
Finnan: Well, no—well, last night, when we were working on our character, I was helping Kate add equipment, and I was like, we should add arrows, and Kate rolled her eyes and said, "I'm not gonna have to keep track of ammunition, am I?" And I thought, Mike won't care about that.
DM: Okay, so I deleted a few things from Justas's backpack that randomly fell out, but you have what's left. You have everything else. And then—Tim, Finnan's… what's Finnan keeping?
Finnan: I'm… as I fall, I'm… grabbing my little ocarina—my clay pipe—and my fiddle in one hand, and… clutching my writing case. And if my cloak… I mean, if my cloak blows off, that's fine. I assume my rings aren't gonna disappear.
DM: Yeah, yeah, your rings—you don't have to do any—your rings, you keep. But you can keep one thing in one hand, one thing in another hand. You're keeping both of your music—
DM: You have your fiddle, your ocarina, your writing case. Okay.
Finnan: I don't need weapons.
DM: That's true.
Finnan: Instruments are my weapons.
DM: Okay. So, you can delete your whole backpack then, Tim.
Finnan: I did already.
DM: There we go. Okay. Say you land…
Finnan: Can you start the music, Mike?
DM: I just did—isn't… it wasn't playing through the—
Finnan: It's not shared. You have to reshare it.
DM: Okay.
Ekko: Okay.
DM: Advanced…
