DM: And… just kind of, like, comes up over the lip. I mean, you can now clearly see there’s this big ledge—probably about… 500, 600 feet wide. Like, a substantial… a substantial ledge, and you can, like, see a little bit of smoke coming up. There’s, like, clearly a village and houses here. But there’s, like, fog. I mean, it’s… the sun is kind of pale in the sky, it’s, like, late afternoon. It’s not a— and there’s a lot of thick cloud cover, there’s a lot of fog drifting around, and there’s bits of snow kind of swirling in the air, like it’s cold. It feels winter-esque, right? Yeah, there’s… there’s not a lot of—so when she… when she… she sort of comes out and sort of walks around, you know. She stops, like, when she gets to the top, and then she sort of… motions. But also, yeah, she sort of… she actually, when she comes over the top, she sort of lets out almost an involuntary little… shout—soft shout of surprise. And you actually hear her footsteps going a little bit away, and then… she kind of comes over back and looks down at you, sort of waiting on the path, and says, “Something’s changed. Something’s wrong.”
Finnan: I’ll… I’ll be reassuring. We can help. We just need a place where we can be hidden and plan for a few… for a little while. We… will help, we promise.
DM: I don’t know if you’ll be seen. Come quickly, I guess, or… quietly, if you can.
Finnan: I’ll look over at Jrain. Can you do that thing again?
Jrain: Can I do that thing again?
DM: Pass without Trace.
Jrain: Yeah.
Jrain: I can do that thing again. One more time.
Finnan: Let’s do our best to sneak through the outskirts of the village to wherever Kalima is leading us.
DM: So as you come over the top… so everybody makes a Stealth check, first of all.
Jrain: I have a plus 10 bonus.
DM: With a plus 10.
Finnan: Deciding if I want advantage on this.
Jrain: Mine’s 27.
Justas: I’m gonna cast Bless on myself before—
Finnan: It doesn’t affect skill checks.
Justas: Oh, no.
Finnan: It’s just saving throws and attack rolls.
DM: Guidance.
Eolo: Oh, okay.
Justas: Guidance? Do I have Guidance?
Finnan: You—
DM: Might. It’s a common cleric cantrip.
Justas: I do have Guidance. Oh yeah, excellent.
Finnan: You know what? I’m gonna… I’m gonna give myself advantage. I don’t think I need it, but—
Eolo: Eolo.
Finnan: Yeah, that’s a 30.
DM: Yeah.
Eolo: Eolo rolled a 1.
Finnan: So that’s an elaborate—
Eolo: Total of… 8.
Finnan: So 18—I’m fine.
DM: Here. Yeah, Eolo’s pretty solid.
Eolo: I succeed on a natural one, okay.
Jrain: Alright, 23.
DM: Ekko, are you… are you a kenku, a bear, a other creature, or disguised as a human?
Ekko: I’m gonna be a cat.
DM: Okay.
Finnan: That’s a good idea.
DM: You have advantage on Stealth! Your magic ring lets you have advantage on Stealth whenever you’re a smaller creature.
Ekko: Yeah.
DM: And cats also, I think, have a good Stealth.
Ekko: What’d you roll? Sorry, what—the rocks? What color are the rocks?
DM: The rocks are gray. It’s like some sort of granite with streaks of frost. The whole landscape is, like, gray and… dismal.
Ekko: Ekko is gonna be, like, a gray tabby. Like a little gray—gray one. Yeah.
DM: Yeah, you have… you have plus—so, yeah, make a Stealth check, but add… add… so your Dex as a cat is 15, so add 10 with… so roll with advantage, and then add—
Finnan: Cats have plus 4 to Stealth, so—
DM: Thus far. So roll 14 with advantage. Actually, you don’t really need to roll. Your minimum roll is good enough to pass the Stealth check.
Ekko: 16 plus 14, it’s plus—
Finnan: 30.
DM: Yeah, so 30.
Ekko: I have a 30.
Finnan: That’s actually what I got.
Ekko: That’s also what—
DM: Wait, Charles, what did you get? Did anybody get less than a 15?
Justas: No.
Jrain: No.
DM: Okay. As you come out of the top, so you can see the scene, right? You’re coming out relatively close to where this water… this waterfall—I mean, it’s only a trickle of water—is coming down, but there’s a large pond and a river that’s like a… a sort of… maybe… 10 feet across and 200 feet long. Pond? And then there’s a… a more forceful waterfall coming down off the back cliff. So basically, you’re on a ledge, right? And in front of you, as you come off the ledge, there’s a cliff face going up into forever. There’s a waterfall coming down from who knows where, higher than you can see. There’s water falling down, and it hits the bottom of the ledge with a loud splash, and there’s, like, mist coming up, then it puddles in this pond, and then trickles down.

DM: On both your left and right are two clusters—two, sort of, clusters of houses. Maybe about… 100 houses total—more on the left than the right—both set a little bit away from the… from the pond. And you can see, like, as you’re even watching, there’s, like, fish jumping in the pond. It seems to be, like, teeming with life. And the—there’s, like, these clusters of stone huts, with, like… packed together. There’s very few people about.

DM: And of course, I’m burying the lede, which is: on the back wall—in the chasm… in the cliff face—there are 5 gashes in the face of the cliff. Like… they don’t… they’re not natural. I mean, they’re just, like—through one gash, you can see lightning. Like, you can, like, see through, and there’s, like, lightning crackling on the other side, and, like, you can see, like, a swirling maelstrom of some sort of lightning storm. Through one gash, you can see, like, almost, like, metallic reflections. Like, there’s these sharp spikes of metal, like, crisscrossing, and then, like, almost a shimmer, like, moving through it occasionally. Through one gash, there’s just these, like, flashing lights—like blue, and then… green, and then just colors that you can’t even explain or see. It’s, like, ultraviolet—like, just odd visual effects that make no sense to you as you stare at them. Through one gash, there is, like… Ash. You can see, like—it looks like an inferno of ash. Like… like just swirling ash, pouring off. And then through one gash, you can actually see a… it almost is like walking through a mirror. But when you look—when you’re looking out through that gash, you’re looking at a ledge, but there’s no village. Like, you can see, like, it’s just a— I mean, they’re all fairly narrow; they’re all, like, about this… you know, this wide, right? Like, almost, like, shoulder width, basically. And they’re jagged, right? They’re not, like, even in the cliff face. And through one of the gashes—through the last gash—you can see almost like a reflection of what you’re looking at here, but there’s no village or anything. And you’re looking into, like, back out, sort of, into… a chasm, right? But… the weather is different. There’s, like, some snow falling, but it’s also… yeah, well, you can’t—there’s, like, snow falling, and you don’t… there’s no ice… you can’t see that well, but there’s no Ice Palace. Like, it doesn’t look like the same view.

DM: And in front of the… for the most part, these are about… there’s a couple hundred feet away, like, on the far side of this pond. So you can’t— and there’s— the light is poor, and it’s, like, gray mist, so you can’t see super well, but there’s a… but there’s a… there’s an ice statue of a wolf—about 30 feet tall—standing in front of these gashes. And a few people kind of milling about near it.
DM: Milling about near the gashes. Like… you could—again, they’re hard to make, but you can sort of make out a few people kind of walking back and forth and, like, stamping their feet. They look like they’re sort of keeping guard, maybe? But not very dedicatedly. But they always stay far away—like, they never come close to this ice wolf. And… Kalima is, like, motioning you, and leads you to the right—the smaller cluster of houses—and kind of… there’s, again, not that many people about, it seems like. Most people are… like, you see one or two people kind of in the distance, like, walking in the other part of the village and stuff, but for the most part, there’s not that many people about. And she brings you… sort of quietly into a… well, I don’t know, do you just follow her? I mean—
Justas: Yeah.
DM: At least the cat is pretty—
Jrain: All of her, yeah.
DM: She brings you pretty quietly into a small… one of these stone houses. It’s about… it’s like a two-room house. Like, one room is a barn; it has some… like, two goats in the barn, and it’s full of hay, and, like, there’s food there and stuff. And… the other’s just like a… it’s like a bedroom. Like, it’s just a single-family, like, peasant house, basically, right? Like, there’s a… there’s a hearth, there’s a… you know, a table.

DM: Kalima kind of bursts in, and… inside the house are two people—a man and a woman. The woman—what is a good… I don’t really know how to share… pictures. Anyway, I have a picture of the man—of the woman, but—
Finnan: Just… just share your screen. I mean, in Roll20, you can drag it onto Roll20, but… right. Without having Roll20 all set up, just sharing your screen is best.
DM: Let me see how I share my screen without sharing my DM notes.
Finnan: Just share… you can share one window.
DM: Yeah. Hold on a sec. M—
DM: Well, there’s two—there’s a woman. I’ll get you a picture of her in a minute, holding a baby—maybe a year old or less. And a man. The woman is sort of wide-eyed, looks like she’s maybe been crying, you know, is sort of hollow-eyed. The man, as the door opens, like, instinctively has pushed her and the baby behind him, and is, like, you know, has what look like strong hands and kind of a caring face. And they both sort of look in shock as Kalima walks in, and then even more shock as the five of you come in behind her. And she starts—she immediately introduces you to Nura and Khalid, her sister and brother-in-law, and their baby Samir, and says—
DM: “These… these… These heroes this priest saved me.” And she holds the stone that Justas enchanted with light once or twice and says, “I felt the god. I felt the kestavo. They’re real.”
DM: And… kind of welcomes—like, motions for you to come in and shut the door, right? And… and…
DM: Here. There’s… Nura and her baby.
Jrain: Very cute.
DM: So, what do you do?
Finnan: Well, come in and shut the door for starters.
DM: Yes.
Finnan: Sharing an image shuts off the music, so you have to restart the music, by the way.
DM: I sit quietly and try to look non-threatening, because I can’t speak their language. Mechanical note on language, so… can you guys hear the music now? Mechanical note on language: three of you don’t speak their language, but in the interest of not it being, like, super boring… the idea—my… Tim and I were actually talking about various language mechanics that would be fun. The thing I’m gonna try out is basically: if you spend a long rest—if you spend, like, a day or more amongst these people—I’ll just assume you’ve picked up enough to communicate basic concepts, but any checks that would require language would be at disadvantage. But you can always communicate as part of, like, roleplaying or… or… just plot and things like that. Not until you’ve spent a day here, but… we just sort of assumed—
Jrain: Talking to the dead guy?
DM: So, like—
Justas: Anyone can talk to—
DM: But yes—but yes. Also, obviously, Justas and Finnan speak the language, so they—
Finnan: Finnan will, of course, will translate.
DM: Yes. So yes, I mean, you can translate also, but if you wander off on your own or something like that, after a day, I’ll say you know enough of the language to get by.

Finnan: So… Finnan wants to do 3 things. First: how long has it been since we… since I sent my fey off to the Ice Palace?
DM: It’s probably been about 45 minutes.
Finnan: Okay. So I’m keeping an eye, see what happens. Maybe… maybe he just vanished into thin air; we don’t know. Ideally, I’d like to get a short rest. And… want to… just try and hear more about the… like, I want to know more about the village. You know? Researcher mode, right? Just kind of trying to… maybe I’ll take out my notes, jot some things down if it doesn’t seem like it’s… obtrusive, but—
Jrain: Are they… are the gashes new since Kalima went away?
DM: Yes.
Finnan: But, you know, Finnan, of course, is… I mean, he’s… he’s willing to probe about those kinds of things, but really what he’s interested in is—
DM: He’s pretty convinced, because—
Finnan: He has this halfling memory of Melusa as an ancient, like—
DM: Pre-Downfall village on the Tarf?
Finnan: That these people, somehow, are… have been isolated from the rest of humanity for, like, you know, 1700 years. And… really wants to know, like, what are their songs? What are their stories? Like, what’s their, like, folklore?
DM: They… they actually seem… I mean, you catch— I mean, Kalima explains Finnan as some sort of… they don’t seem to know what halflings are. They seem to, like… they don’t seem to have any clear stories or knowledge. Like, Kalima explains Finnan as, like, a strange… short… human person thing, right? Who seems to be… but don’t— and she sort of motions—wait, but you’re still a cat, and you look like a human, right, Eric?
Finnan: Yeah.
DM: So the kenku, she sort of whoops… like, sort of… points at the… at the… at Eolo, and is like, “Sta… stay—he’s… stay away.” Like, he’s weird. Like, he has wings. I… like… but he doesn’t—like, she’s like, wait, what’s going—like, she doesn’t realize, like, you don’t have wings anymore all of a sudden. It’s very confusing. And, like, she’s completely puzzled by Ekko, too, right? Like, she doesn’t seem to have the experience that… of a shapeshifter. Like, obviously, you seem quite out of the ordinary to her. But… but Justas seems— they seem… everybody’s, like, crowding… I mean, the first thing that happens is everybody’s, like, crowding around Justas, asking for your blessing.
Justas: Oh yeah. Absolutely. And I’ll name different, like, kestavo in the process, and… talk about them, and the places they’re from, and the things they represent—all of that.
DM: They seem very… I mean, they’re… very grateful for this, and, like, they almost seem awestruck. Like… this is not something they would have expected to ever be real.
Justas: And they’re not familiar—like, they don’t have any kestavo whatsoever except for the West Wind?
DM: Wow. So… they remember some stories of some of the, like, big… like, some of the more famous kestavo—like Romil, this Glacier King who is, like—
Justas: Yeah.
DM: Well-known across the region as sort of one of the kestavo that people would go… would go on pilgrimages to his glacier, they… they’d recall. But a lot of— but no, they don’t have any of their own gods. They don’t… they don’t—
Justas: Good.
DM: To them, kestavo are a myth. The whole idea of religion almost seems to them as a myth. They’re, like, very… they’re… they’re acting like you’ve walked out of a storybook and are preaching of kestavo as if they’re real, in a way that they almost don’t really believe. And Kalima does keep saying, like, “But he… he did magic. Like, he made a stone glow.” Yeah.
Justas: I’ll do that again, too, and—
DM: Sure, right. You feel a little weird when you’re casting the spell. Like, you almost have to, like… try a little harder. Like there’s something almost in your way when you cast the spell that you kind of have to brush—like, almost like a fog. Yeah.
Justas: I only had two spell slots.
DM: Yeah, exactly, yeah. But they’re, like, they’re totally awestruck by this, in the sense of, like… you know, people who had to sort of almost stop believing that the kestavo were potentially real. And they’re, like, amazed that you’re summoning the light of… of these different… of these different gods.
Justas: And, like, just to be clear, like, that… that doesn’t, like, really accord with… with Justas’s understanding of how kestavo work. Like, they’re not—
DM: Like—
Justas: They may be competitive, or trickstery, or selfish, but they’re not like, “You shall have no other kestavo before me.” Like, it’s… it’s—
DM: No, no, no, no, definitely.
Justas: These things, yeah, yeah.
DM: Correct. No, it is definitely the entire religion is very much… kestavo are gods of places, fundamentally. And so, you would never really have two gods of the same place, but… places are small for many of them, and they’re not, you know—there’s a god of this tree, or this waterfall, or this stream, or… right? And it’s not like Romil the Glacier King is mad if some god moves into an ice cave. You can be a god of an ice cave on Romil’s glacier—that’s fine, right? It’s not… there’s no… the whole idea that you’re… there’s something… I mean, it makes no sense to you, what they’re—the way they’re talking.
Justas: Yeah. I’m like—I’ll explain some of that to them, too, in the process, like—
DM: It’s strange.
Justas: Subverted a little bit.
DM: I mean, they’re not… they’re not saying, like, we’re not… their sense is not the gods are… are not, like—they’re just gone. It’s not that they… it’s not that “I don’t want to worship them,” or they think that they’re… they’re just… they’re not here.
Justas: Yeah.
DM: Right? And there’s no way to get to somewhere where they are. So it’s… it’s more almost like, “Well, there… there aren’t any kestavo here, so…” Right. The stories of the outside world to them are very, very, very… scattered, right? Like, as Finnan starts to talk to them, it’s like, “Well, what—like, Sembara?” They have no idea what any of these—
Finnan: No, I’m not talking about… I’m not, like, talking about Sembara.
DM: No, no.
Finnan: Or what they’re—
DM: Right. What I mean is your impression from talking to them is that they have no idea of… anything in the outside. Like… like, they have, like, these… these—
Finnan: So what are their myths? Like, what… what is the… what are the gods that they do talk about? I mean, obviously, they don’t, like, worship any gods, but they have stories of kestavo, right? Who do they have stories of, and what are the sort of myths?
DM: I mean, the stories are almost more… about the concept of kestavo than specific ones. I mean, there’s a handful, like… like, Rabel, or… there’s a few other names, like, Isau?, who is said to be the kestavo who brings spring—from the… who is, like, the kestavo who’s said to live on the short— you could read the Obsidian page as fast as well as I can.
Finnan: I guess I can remove the stress check? that this might not be canon, then.
DM: Well, no, because I haven’t read the whole thing, but… but the two—the three kestavo who are mentioned at the top are canon. But… like, they’ve heard of a couple of these kestavo, but they… like… like, Besla and Romil in particular are actually common. They don’t mention, but… but they’re not… they have stories about having stories, and about kestavo as, like, “Well, it used to be that there was a… that we… in the ancient days, we… we would walk along the… the water—you know, the stream—and… and… and give prayers to the… to the waterfall,” but they don’t actually have any specific stories of… it’s not like they… it’s not like they’re remembering some specific god who they still remember, right? It’s more like, “Well, yes, we think…” you know? And you almost… it almost feels like a garbled, sort of— they talk about, you know—
Finnan: I’m not just interested in gods. I mean, Finnan’s interested in… just, like, what… what is their folklore? Like, what is the story they tell of themselves?
DM: That, I mean… Khalid is like… kind of looks at… at his child, and as you start to ask these questions, it’s like… kind of looks at you a little bit like an outsider. Like, well… the whole idea of, like, talking to somebody from outside their village strikes him as quite odd. He sort of… glances at Kalima, and is like, “Should…”
DM: “Are they one of us now? Well, will they… be trapped here with us?”
Justas: No, sisters.
DM: Fair. The—
DM: When the sun sets, and the—he sort of… he sort of mutters. And sort of… you’ve noticed that the baby is, like, looking around. The kid is sort of, like, looking around with a sort of odd and unusual little curiosity for a one-year-old, and hasn’t cried at all or really made any noise. The… so the… I mean, the fundamental story they tell themselves is that they are… here… because they’re here. This is… this is where they live, and life is—persistent; the fog. You can’t get through the fog. There’s no way up, there’s no way down. There’s no way across. There’s… there’s the village, there’s the river, Melusa. There’s the… there’s the cows. New cows are born. The fish come in… come in the river. The sun sets. The night comes—
Finnan: When… how long does it take the sun to set?
DM: He’s seen 3 sunsets in his life.
Finnan: Okay. And they don’t tell them… there’s no story of where they came from. They don’t have any sense of coming from some other place to here.
DM: They… they sorta… I mean, they have this… the way Nura—the way Khalid tells it, it’s… it’s… they’re… they were… their ancestors’ ancestors’ ancestors were… were brought here by Zeyfa.
Finnan: Right. And their want is to endure.
DM: Why they endure varies. You get the sense that there’s different… factions or beliefs about the value of endurance, but that… Khalid is kind of steering the conversation away from, like… if they’re here for… they’re here tomorrow. They’re here for forever. They’ll learn. We shouldn’t talk of such things. Like, he glances at his kid again, like, we shouldn’t talk of such things. Like, Khalid doesn’t want to get into… he’s sort of trying to steer the conversation away from the… but they don’t… it seems like the main lede—the main story they tell themselves—is that, you know: they are born here, and therefore they endure this place, and… that’s… right. Fate. They don’t… you know, they occasionally talk about, you know—
Finnan: The only other thing I’ll ask them, and then Finnan’s gonna take a break and stop monopolizing conversation, is if… if they remember their parents.
Justas: Yeah.
Finnan: I’ll ask… I’ll just ask: what were your parents like? What were your grandparents like?
DM: They… I mean, yeah. Nura talks about her and Kalima’s mother’s still alive; she lives in the village. Their father’s… passed. And when she says that, she sort of… she actually says, “Our father… is…”
DM: “Our father has…” how does she put this? “Our father has gone into the… our father has gone to the mists,” but sort of glances over at her baby when she says that.
Justas: How many in the village graveyard?
DM: Graveyard?
Justas: Huh.
DM: What is a graveyard?
Justas: How much does your child understand of what we’re saying?
DM: She sort of whispers to you. “Sometimes… the soul knows, remembers too much. Doesn’t end well for the child, then. We’re worried about her.”
DM: “Rest. We can talk more, if you wish.” But she, like… gets you some cheese and… and… milk from the goats, and… she sort of glances around the— “You must be tired.” Phew.
DM: “I… I do not… think you will be disturbed here.”
Finnan: I… I wanna know what… what it’s like when the sun sets. Like, do they see a sun… do they know what a sunset is? I’m gonna use a Minor Illusion to make a picture of a sunset.
DM: Yeah, so yes, they… they… when the sun sets, Kalima will start to describe the last sunset. The last sunset was relatively recently—like, very recent. Like, not that long ago. The… the… I mean… the sun… sinks to the— I mean, there’s no horizon. I mean, it’s… the sky’s never clear.
Finnan: Right.
DM: Right? The idea of a blue… the sky is gray. There’s no— the sky’s not blue here. It’s gray. It’s never clear. But… in the evening—the… I mean, they don’t really think of it as evening, but when the sun sets, it… goes down, and there’s no brilliant colors or anything like that. It’s like a gray winter sunset. It mostly just fades away.
Finnan: And then it rises again?
DM: Kind of. I mean, it… so, night doesn’t end until somebody is sacrificed into the labyrinth.
Finnan: Right.
DM: And then that causes the sun to rise, but it usually kinda… it’s usually theirs, you sort of— it doesn’t move across the sky. It’s more like it goes away, and then it’s night for some period of time, and then it sort of rapidly crosses across the sky and then kind of hangs in the same spot for a long time, and then it goes away, and then—
Finnan: Okay. So it sounds like they’re willing to let us spend the night, such as it is here. Is that correct?
DM: Yes.
Finnan: Okay.
Finnan: Go ahead.
DM: I should… yeah, no, no, no, no, no, go ahead.
Finnan: I have no sense—well, Finnan has no sense of how long it’s been since we’ve slept. Are we tired at all?
DM: Yeah.
DM: It’s… I mean… it’s been a… strange period of time. It’s actually hard to know how much time has passed, but you do feel tired.
Jrain: Do they long rest? A few times a day.
DM: They… I mean, they sleep. I mean, again, they’ll… they’ll explain… if you start having a conversation about this, there’s a sort of gong noise that rings from the Ice Palace every 12 hours, basically. And that… they sleep… they go to sleep when the gong rings, and they wake up when the gong rings, and they go to sleep when the gong rings. It hasn’t rung yet, but if you’re tired, you could certainly go to bed if you wanted to. You’ve probably been talking for an hour.
Finnan: Yeah. So I will… before we go to bed, I’m gonna cast Clairvoyance at the Ice—on the Ice Palace.
DM: Where?
Finnan: That’s what I’m thinking about.
DM: Ekko?
Finnan: I unmuted.
DM: Alright, is Mr. Cat gonna go explore at all, or are you just gonna… stay a cat?
DM: Wait, you’re still muted.
DM: I mean, because cats only communicate with hand gestures. That’s true.
Ekko: Sorry, my mom called me out. I’m actually putting you guys on Zoom. My mom is seeing you guys for the first time in, like, 20 years. She says hi.
DM: I—
Ekko: Let my mom say hi. Dave Schwartz says hi too. Sorry, sorry, guys.
DM: No, no, that’s okay.
Ekko: She’s saying hi.
DM: I—
DM: So…
DM: You’re clairvoyancing.
Finnan: Yeah, if we’re, like, getting ready… I’m gonna wait till after we eat dinner, like, getting ready for—yeah.
DM: I mean, as you’re… as you’re sort of eating, the gong rings. You hear this… this gong. And not that long after that, there’s… you hear… footsteps. Well, I mean, you… if there’s anything else you want to do, but shortly after, you hear, like… like, a commotion, sort of outside. Outside, in the dark.
Ekko: And Ekko totally wants… explores as a cat.
DM: Okay, well, let’s pause for a minute, so—
Ekko: Yeah.
DM: Ekko’s like a little gray tabby. Like, while they’re talking in human language, you could go explore. Where do you want to go?
Ekko: Where are my options right now?
DM: Wow. So there’s a village. It’s like, you’re on the side of the cliff. It’s a wedge. It’s about—
Ekko: Yep.
DM: 800 feet this way… it’s like 600 feet this way, and like, I don’t know, 400 feet this way or something. There’s a cluster of houses on one side of the lake—of the little pond—a cluster of houses on the other side of the pond, and then on the back cliff face, there’s these 5 gashes on the wall.
Ekko: Right, yes, okay.
DM: Guarded by… an ice wolf about 30 feet tall, and I’m—
Ekko: A statue of an ice wolf, or an actual ice wolf?
DM: Well, a statue of an ice wolf, but it doesn’t look super dissimilar to the statues that tried to kill you at the beginning of the first one.
Ekko: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Got it, got it, okay, okay. Yeah, so Ekko is gonna do what cats do.
DM: Or you could—
Ekko: Okay.
DM: I was gonna say, then there’s a rope bridge that leads to the cattle rock, and that leads onward to the lush growing-things rock.
Ekko: Okay, okay, so—so, Ekko, you know what I’m imagining right now? Remember when we were in middle school and we used to play Myst?
DM: Yeah.
Ekko: It’s like—this is like first-person, like, cat.
DM: Yeah, yeah. Myst. Yeah.
Ekko: Okay, so yeah. So as a cat, Ekko’s gonna do a perimeter first. Just, like… without going deep in, just kind of do a quick little loop around the two clusters—just, you know, seeing if there’s anything out of place. But then is gonna head over—if there’s anything out of place there, or it just looks kind of pretty normal—which is what did he see? And then he’s gonna head over to the gashes, and then have a look at the wolf statue.
DM: Okay. So… in this part of the village, there’s maybe 30 houses or so. There’s a few people out and about, like, mostly just, like, walking between a neighbor or something like that. There doesn’t seem to be this kind of activity you’d expect in, like, a farm community, right? Like, it’s not like there’s people tending the fields and… everything seems kind of subdued and quiet. It’s like… you know, people are walking… occasionally you see somebody walking from a house to a house. They’re all kind of wearing fairly rough-spun clothes. Like, mostly looks like, you know, goat hair and… you know, not very good wool, but heavy, right? It’s cold. I mean, it’s not warm. And there’s, like… a couple of… you know, these clusters of buildings. There’s one house that’s slightly bigger than the others. It’s, like, maybe 3 rooms or 4 rooms. Most of them are 1 or 2 rooms. And there’s… there’s lights on, and there’s… there’s a number of people inside. Like… torches, you know—there’s, like, candles burning, or a big fire. Like, it’s… it’s active, right? Like, I mean, it’s not actually that dark out, right? Because it’s… the sun doesn’t really set, but there’s, like, maybe… you hear, like, the noise of, like, people talking, and, like, something like a—like a—
Ekko: Language?
DM: Old Zimkovan.
Ekko: Okay.
DM: You don’t speak this language.
Ekko: No, no.
DM: On the other village, it’s bigger—maybe 70 houses. It’s on the other side of the… of this pond, which you can’t actually— I mean, you have to sort of… hop across. It’s… there’s a section right by the edge of the cliff where the pond narrows down to a stream. It’s only… the stream’s only a trickle. It’s only, like, this wide, so it’s easy to just hop across. But the other village—it’s very similar. There’s not a lot of activity. There’s a few people, like—
Ekko: Any other cats?
DM: There are no other cats. In fact, there seems to be no life at all, except goats and people and cows. Like, there’s no birds.
Ekko: So, like, strictly food. Strictly food for the humans.
DM: Yeah. There’s some… there’s fish. Like, you notice that the lake is teeming as you jump across it. It’s, like, teeming with salmon. Like… like, oddly teeming with salmon. Like—
Ekko: Yeah.
DM: Where are they?
Ekko: Yeah, so it’s like—are there people eating fish, goat, and cattle? Like that’s… what they’re eating? Yeah, yeah.
DM: Basically, yeah. But I mean, you see somebody, like, coming back from the… from the… across-the-rope bridge with, like, a barrel of apples.
Ekko: Okay, okay, okay.
DM: Like, there’s this one island—this one floating rock—is, like, lush with, like, trees and—
Ekko: Right, right, right.
DM: A big commerce.
Ekko: That’s, like, that’s the vegetarian island, and then there’s, like, the meat—
DM: Yeah, exactly.
Ekko: There you go. So then they’ll—okay, I got it. Cool. Excellent, excellent.
DM: That’s great.
Ekko: Ekko.
DM: Stuff.
Ekko: Okay, head over to the… head over to the gashes.
DM: Okay, so… how—so when you’re about 100 feet away—
Ekko: Yeah.
DM: You’re a cat, you’re pretty stealthy. You made a great Stealth roll, right? You’re… you’re just, like, sneaking along. There are, like, four… guards. Clearly guards. So first of all, there’s this—
Ekko: Human… human guards?
DM: Human guards, yeah, yeah. There’s this giant, like, 30-foot-tall ice wolf, right? And you can actually see, flitting about its head, there are these little wisps, like… kind of… I mean, they’re the same things you fought, right, in the first combat of this adventure. But, like, those little—
Ekko: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
DM: Little, like, wisps that put out lights. They’re kind of floating around, and they occasionally, like, dart towards one of the gashes, or dart down towards the ground to, like… they don’t go in or anything. They always stay a little bit away, but they’re just, like, darting about, like, kind of trying to inspect and see what’s going on, you know. They seem to be… part of the guard system, right? And then there’s four human guards, all standing in front of the gash that looks… most normal—the one that’s looking out into, like, a copy of the chasm. And that… as you—I mean, I don’t know, how close are you going?
Ekko: I get close. I get closer. I mean, again, I’m trying not to be noticed, of course, by the—
DM: Yeah, yeah. Make a Stealth check.
Ekko: Another Stealth check?
DM: Pass Without Trace timing/aoe.
Finnan: No, it’s within 30 feet of—
DM: Oh, only within 30 feet.
Finnan: It’s an emanation around Jrain.
DM: Never mind. Make a Stealth check without the plus 10, but you still have advantage.
Ekko: Natural 20.
DM: Alright. Well, you’re… you’re slinking along the ground. Your coat is just the perfect color of the granite. As you… as you sneak along—
Ekko: Extreme roleplay right now. I’ve always wanted to be a cat. That’s great.
DM: You get closer, right? Like, you… you see the… so you get maybe 15 feet away from these four humans who are standing around in front of this gash. It’s like… it’s like a zigzag in the wall—maybe 15 feet tall and 2.5 feet wide—but it’s zigzagging a bit. But its edges, you notice, are quite blurred. It’s not like… it’s not like it was carved in the wall. It’s like it almost looks superimposed on top of the wall, in a way. And, like, the edges kind of are smudged and not sharp at all, and, like, if you look at the edge, it’s like you can’t really understand what your eye is seeing. It’s like… it just… it doesn’t really process as real. Like, there’s some… the boundary phenomenon is very, very hard to process as, like, a real thing. Like, it just doesn’t make sense.

DM: But then, looking through… these four guards standing there—they all have swords, and they’re wearing chain armor. And you can see, like, on each of their… they all have tabards with, like, a stylized form of the Ice Palace on their tabards. They’re sort of looking… you know, they look bored. They’re sort of looking at each other. They look a little bit bored and a little bit scared. Like, they look to the other gashes, and, like, occasionally they look back to the… the one that looks like a copy of this world. But… you notice—sorry, I was—
Ekko: Copy of this world— is it like a reflection? Does it look like a—
DM: And it looks like looking through a mirror. But when you walk— but it’s not reflecting the same scene back. So it’s a similar scene. So you’re looking like… it looks like you’re looking into a mirror.
Ekko: Okay, okay. So is this like an interdimensional portal into, like… a multiverse version of this same place type of thing?
DM: I mean, maybe. It… it certainly looks like an odd reflection here, but… everything looks different when you look… it’s like it’s a reflection, but—
Ekko: Does it look like you could go through it?
DM: Oh yeah. Yeah, yeah, definitely. These all look like things you could go through.
Ekko: Guys, guys—like, Ekko’s kinda, like… like… wanted to channel his inner Eolo and just, like, “Fuck it.” Like… I rolled a natural 20 on Stealth. Let’s just fucking go in. Should I just do that? Just—
Finnan: Seems risky.
Ekko: A little crazy?
Justas: Do you have another character you’re excited to play next session?
Ekko: No. I wanna stay playing this cat.
DM: I mean, it looks like it would be pretty tough to… like, as you watch, like, the little wisps are sort of buzzing a lot more densely around the—
Ekko: Alright, alright.
DM: gashes, and, like, two of the guards are standing pretty close to it, right? Like, it would be—
Ekko: Okay.
DM: And it’s only this wide. Like, it would be… pretty difficult to go through unseen without magic that would make you invisible.
Ekko: Got it. Alright, alright, alright, okay. Alright, this is good. This is good reconnaissance. I… I head back. I head back.
DM: The other gashes look terrifying. I mean, the one that’s like ash—it looks like just this endless wasteland of fire and ash. The one that’s lightning is like the heart of a maelstrom, like, with lightning crackling—
Finnan: Wait, there’s lightning, ash—what were the other two?
DM: Lightning, ash, metal, and just… these hard-to-process colors. Right. Just like… like… but not even colors that make sense as colors. Like… like… get to ultraviolet, and, like… just those, like, weird color sensations that you can’t even describe.
Ekko: I wish Eolo were here just to, like… just boldly fly into one, just for fun. Right.
DM: But yeah, one is, like… all jagged pieces of metal, and, like… like endless… it looks like passageways through metal that just twist off into nothing, and that are constantly shifting and moving. One of them is, like, a maelstrom of lightning. One of them is… ash. One of them is just, like, these spiraling colors that… that are—
Ekko: Yeah, got it.
DM: I mean… they all look like… other places.
Ekko: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Totally. That’s awesome.
DM: It does look like you could probably get through any of the ones except the… like… I mean, you’d probably instantly die, right?
Ekko: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
DM: The only one that’s well-guarded is the one—
Ekko: The mirror one, yeah.
DM: Mirror one, yeah.
Ekko: Okay.
DM: And as you get a little closer, you can actually… also, as you’re watching, you see the giant 30-foot-tall wolf occasionally very slowly moves its head, like it’s scanning back and forth.
Ekko: If I kind of, like… jump up or whatever, can I see, like, a reflection of myself? Like, is there another cat on the other side?
DM: No other cat. No, it’s… it’s… it’s—actually, make a Perception check.
Ekko: I was gonna say, like, how similar is it? Advantage?
DM: No, you don’t have advantage on Perception, only—
Ekko: I got a plus 7 Perception. That’s good. 20.
DM: You do notice it looks like a different… the sun is in a different spot.
Ekko: Mmm.
DM: It’s like… it’s like noon. Like, you can see the shadows. As you walk through—like, you can see shadows on the cliff. Like, A: the sun is shining… you can’t see the sun, but you can see shadows on the cliff. The sun is shining brightly—unlike here, where it’s, like, behind a pale cloud. You’ve never actually seen the sun; it’s just, like, you can tell it’s there, because it’s faint. But… and you—it’s clearly, like, this is late afternoon. This has very strong late-afternoon vibes, and it actually hasn’t changed the whole time you’ve been here, right? Like, it’s late afternoon the whole time. But looking through, it’s clearly noon. Like, you can tell from the shadows that it’s… that it’s like—

DM: The mirror version is, like, similar to this. It’s a ledge, there’s a… there’s a stream, there’s no houses or anything. There’s a similar… there’s no houses. There’s a similar stream. You can see, actually, in the pond, there’s, like, a big stone—like, a ruined stone structure in the pond on the other side. Like, it goes up… 8 feet. As you’re now close enough to kind of look more carefully, it goes up, like, maybe 6 or 8 feet out of the water, and then it’s just cut off, like a square. Like maybe a tower that’s just been sliced in half. And you can, again, you can see it’s, like, noon on the other side over there. And yeah—no people, no buildings, no floating things.
Ekko: Okay, I report back: mental note—Eolo, you should just fly through any one of those three things. Just don’t pay attention—just fly into it. I’m sure it’ll be great.
Finnan: There’s a bunch of gashes on the wall that are actually portals to other dimensions, and there’s, like, a lightning one, an ash one, and, like, one that’s just crazy colors.
Ekko: And it just feels like the type of thing that Eolo would be like, “Crazy colors!” and just fly into, but I’m not, you know… I’m just putting it out there. Just saying. I’m not saying he should do it.
DM: Or that you should roleplay him doing it.
Ekko: Although it might be massively entertaining and cool to see what happens.
DM: Do you have a character you’re excited about playing?
Ekko: Say it.
Eolo: It flies into the color gash.
DM: Finnan casts Clairvoyance.
Finnan: I’m gonna try and put it… somewhere… I don’t know—how did… how did Seeker figure out where Grosha’s throne room was?
DM: Plot armor.
Finnan: No, Eric specifically said, “I want to put it, like, in this sort of spot,” and I looked at a map. I think probably, like, sort of towards the back—but a little bit just random—and low to the ground. I want to basically be ground floor, looking up, towards the back of the palace, but not the very back—sort of—
DM: Like….
Finnan: This is the way.
DM: Three corners back. Okay. Like—
Justas: Like, where a throne room would be.
Finnan: Yeah, where a throne room would be.
DM: So, there’s 3 arced towers that come up. So the palace is basically a rectangle, and there’s 3 towers that are kind of in—two on the back wall, one on the front wall—that then curve upward and make, like, a chamber. Okay. Right? At the top.
Finnan: Oh, wait, is there an actual chamber at the top?
DM: Yes. Yes.
Justas: That feels like the place to look.
Finnan: Yeah, let’s put it in the chamber at the top.
DM: Okay. So the top of the tower—I mean, it’s… it’s a… you can’t see it, it’s made of ice, right? You don’t know what’s inside it, but there is a—
Finnan: Yeah, yeah, that’s fine. Throw Clairvoyance there. I’m going with sight to start.
DM: Okay. So you… hold on, let me find this… The top of the tower. Your sensor appears. It’s a mostly empty room, but there is a… there’s, like, a— it’s maybe… I’m trying to think of how to describe this. It’s like… a 15-or-so-foot-diameter circle. And there’s, like, a large… it’s… outside—like, it’s… it’s circular, the ceiling is domed, and there is a large, flat surface. Like… a table, almost? Like, a circular—like, perfectly circular table.

DM: And there’s a glowing point of light, sort of… partway… so, like, if it’s a flat surface like this—like a disk—sort of… here—you can’t see what I’m doing—but sort of two-thirds of the way across the disc, in, like, an arc from one side to the other side, there’s this glowing point of light. And there’s… do you read Sylvan? Do you recognize something? What language?
Finnan: I’m sure I would recognize Sylvan. I’m not gonna read Sylvan words if I see them.
DM: Right. That’s true. You know all the dangers of reading Sylvan words. There’s dense writing in Sylvan kind of going across the disc, like, sort of around the bottom arc. And then there’s just this glowing point of light—like a pale… pale… almost like… it actually kind of reminds me of the sun. Like a pale, glowing spot.
Finnan: There’s nobody in the room.
DM: Nobody is in the room at the moment, no.
Finnan: I will switch to listening for a few minutes, just to see if I hear anything.
DM: Nothing… there’s no… I mean, you can… you can hear faint noises of activity below.
Finnan: So the palace isn’t empty.
DM: No.
Finnan: There’s just nobody in this room.
DM: No.
Finnan: I’ll just watch for the rest of the time to see if anybody shows up. Eight more minutes, or something like that at this point.
DM: Yeah, no, nothing… do you ever switch back to—are you switching back?
Finnan: Yeah. I’ll check hearing every—if anybody’s there, I’ll hear, and then I’ll flip briefly to sight, and then go back to hearing.
DM: Nothing much seems to be happening in the room, but, I mean, this glowing point of light is clearly, like… it’s not moving over the 8 minutes, but every once in a while some shimmering light runs along the words. I mean, it certainly… it certainly gives off the vibes of some sort of magic. I mean, you can’t—I think you can’t Detect Magic through Clairvoyance. I assume you can’t actually detect, but… but it certainly, you know, in Finnan’s experience, it certainly looks like something out of a… it’s the kind of thing you’d expect Sylvan writing on to have all kinds of magical effects, and it looks like the kind of thing out of a… out of a story of the fey, right? But what it does is a little bit hard to tell.

DM: But as you… every time you switch back to sound, like, there’s… there’s some commotion happening, right? Like, you can hear… nobody’s being very careful. Like, you occasionally hear an order—like somebody shout—like, a shouted order in… in some Zimkovan, like… like, you know—
Finnan: The people in here are speaking Zimkovan.
DM: Old Zimkovan.
Finnan: Yeah, yeah.
DM: You hear occasional words shouted in Old Zimkovan, yes.
Finnan: Okay.
DM: Like… like, you know, “Oh, bring… bring Yasem?,” right? Like— and then there’s something like… you know, you hear, like… sort of Xypher? mentioned. Like, it’s very faint, right? But it sounds like a group of people is maybe preparing to go somewhere.
Finnan: And which direction, roughly, is the sound coming from?
DM: Directly below you.
Finnan: Like straight below you.
DM: Yeah. Probably… you can’t… you can’t see straight, but there’s probably some sort of— from the structure of the building, there would naturally be a courtyard directly, because this is, like, directly centered over the—
Finnan: Okay, party. I have one more third-level slot. Do I spend it on another Clairvoyance for the courtyard, or is there too big of a risk?
Justas: You think we can get a long rest in?
Finnan: Well, they said we could sleep and probably wouldn’t be disturbed, but… I have two first-level slots, that’s it. I’m gonna be useless if something bad happens to us.
Ekko: I say Eolo just flies over and checks it out himself.
Eolo: Yeah, I could… I could just fly over. I’m cool.
Justas: I think you should Clairvoyance it.
Finnan: Okay. I’m gonna use my last third-level slot to… create another Clairvoyance in the courtyard, like, below where—
DM: Clairvoyance how long does Clairvoyance take to cast?
Finnan: 10 minutes.
DM: Okay. So… when the sensor appears, you see about… 6… a group of 6 people walking, all in… geared like soldiers, right? Like, they’re… well, four of them are geared like soldiers. They have, like… two of them have chainmail. They’re all carrying spears. Two of them have, like, less good armor, but, like, leather armor—all with the same tabards that cat Ekko saw with this, like, stylized Ice Palace. They all… they all look similar. I mean, they look… they look like they could be related to… I mean, Kalima and Nura and Khalid all actually look fairly similar. They all look like they could be related. And these people look similar, right? They look like… same sort of… look as the other humans you’ve seen in the village.

DM: They’re sort of walking… as the sensor appears, they’re sort of walking away, like, into a… you can actually see through—like, there’s a passageway that leads all the way out. There’s, like, a big double door. So you’re in a big courtyard. There’s a double door that’s standing open, and you can see a double door standing open on the other side—like, out of the palace on the other side. And you can see a bridge of ice is slowly growing from the front door across to the village.
Finnan: Okay.
DM: And the people are sort of walking as your sensor appears. You can see them sort of… you caught the end of—there’s maybe 6 more people in front of them, right? And you hear them—well, that’s what you see.
Finnan: Yeah. I’ll… I’ll switch to hearing briefly.
DM: You hear one of them saying, “A trickster,” Xypher? said. “A trickster. Maybe… if we catch it, something new will happen.” The other one says, “It’s best not to…” Yeah. The other one says, “It’s best not to question. Survival is proof.”
DM: And the other one says, “Yeah… some novelty in life would be nice occasionally, don’t you think?” And the other one says, “Novelty,” like, scoffing. Like, “Nothing good has come of that. Survival. That’s why we’re here.”
DM: Something inaudible Mutters a little bit under their breath that you can’t quite hear. You hear somebody else say, “Remember your orders. Find… find the spirit who taunted the master. It must be around somewhere. Must have come from somewhere. Check the—check with Yasem at the wall. Maybe he saw something.”
DM: And they start to… I mean, they’re marching across now. They’re sort of muttering a little bit.
Finnan: Okay. I will tell Kalima—I will ask Kalima—how often people come from the palace.
DM: It’s… some believe servitude brings safety. They go back and forth. Not… usually. Not usually at this time. Why?
Finnan: Just curious.
DM: Are you guys—
Finnan: I think at this point, yeah, we’re just gonna long rest.
Justas: Yeah.
Finnan: And call it a night, I think.
Justas: I’m fading for the night.
DM: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
DM: Okay, so you’re settling in to try and go to sleep? You’re not… you’re not doing anything about the ice bridge or anything like that? Well, we can pick that up next time.
Finnan: Yeah, I mean… Finnan just wants to hide in the—
DM: Hide in the barn, and—
Finnan: Barn. There’s… I mean, there’s no—
DM: Yeah?
Finnan: There’s not really any obvious way they can trace my fey spirit.
DM: No, that is correct.
Finnan: And in the morning, I can send the fey spirit back, and be like—
DM: All you know.
Finnan: Here I am.
DM: So you’re gonna, like, just prank?
Finnan: Prince of Gleamwater is gonna be mad at you.
DM: Right. You’re gonna just hide in the barn and…
Finnan: Yeah.
DM: Try and rest for the night, and ignore the… ignore the soldiers marching across the bridge.
Finnan: I think that’s our plan, right? I mean—
DM: I’m not… I don’t mean that skeptically. That’s—
Justas: We’re not gonna try long resting. We’re gonna succeed in long resting.
Finnan: Right, but my point is we don’t wanna… we’re not gonna try and engage the soldiers, right? Like, we don’t know enough.
DM: Yet.
Finnan: Anything, though, so—
Eolo: There is a little bit of an issue, which is that Eolo is kind of a sleepwalker—or maybe a sleep-flyer sometimes, too. So—
DM: So I should roll a d4, and on a 1, he goes flying out in the middle of the night? Is that what you’re saying?
Ekko: Well, and—
Eolo: Yeah, I mean—
Ekko: Even crazier: when Eolo sleep-flies, he’s, like, really drawn to, like, flashing lights and colors.
Eolo: That’s the weirdest thing. That’s right.
Ekko: Yeah, you know.
Finnan: I am… I am sure there are lots of possible characters you could play from the village, so… you know.
DM: You could go through… you could go fly through the flashing lights and colors. I don’t know what would happen, actually. I’d have to ask Tim.
Finnan: I was trying to figure out what plane that was, and I couldn’t. You can tell.
Eolo: Whoa, that’s… Eolo’s gonna figure it out.
Finnan: Yeah.
Justas: Or die trying.
Finnan: Or die trying.
Justas: Or both.
Finnan: Anyway… so I think we should—yeah, we’re gonna stop. Well, stop.
DM: Agreed.
Finnan: Yeah.
DM: But don’t long rest on your character sheets. I’m not saying you’re gonna fail, but just don’t click the button. We'll start… we'll start tomorrow.
Ekko: Dammit!
Finnan: Hey, I have two first-level spell slots left, and nothing else.
Justas: I'm gonna… I don't want to forget this for next session. I'm gonna all agree whether long-resting is a good idea or not.
Eolo: Or whether, like, soldiers will go house to house and.
Finnan: Oh, that's a good idea.
DM: You should all take a short rest. As an aside, you had dinner, you've been sitting around.
Ekko: Tell us the answer to the augury now.
DM: I'm just reading what the spell does, You weren't an omen about the results of course action you plan to take, so yes, the next 30 minutes, okay? It's like, it's… it's like…
DM: Weal and woe?
Ekko: What? What was that?
DM: So, it's like the… it's like...there's some good and there's some bad. Actually, you know what? Hold on, hold on, hold on.
DM: Yeah, yeah, hold on, hold on, let me do something different here, actually. It's good.
Justas: It's good?
DM: Yeah.
Finnan: Okay.
Justas: Alright!
Ekko: Good! I sleep for fully. Good it is.
Justas: Good. We'll still wait to click long rest, I guess, but good.
DM: No, no, no, yeah, you should wait, but… but… but the outcome is good.
Finnan: Okay.
DM: Okay.