DM: And… as it collapses—hey, you managed to keep Kalima alive, too. That was clever of you. As it collapses, hold on, I gotta find my… switch up the music.
DM: As it collapses, you see, in the center of the room, a… you—first of all, as it collapses, the wind stops as the beast falls dead. The wind, like—the howling that you could still hear from the blackness that you fell down into this pit from—ends. And you start to see, like… the ice and frost on the walls start to… start to, like, weep, like they’re melting. And in the center of this almost arena, you start to see, like… granite—like a granite section. Like, the ice is vanishing, and there’s, like, granite appearing, and as you watch, it… it’s like the… the ice is, like, sublimating off the granite, and it’s actually softening and turning to… to… to earth. And you see it sort of… splitting, and you can smell… like, a dirt—like a natural dirt smell—and, like, a cold earth smell coming out of this… this crack, as the, sort of, this tunnel opens in the floor.
Jrain: So there’s a pleasant, earthy-smelling tunnel developing right under my feet.
DM: Yes.
Jrain: I step to the side to make sure we know where we’re going.
Finnan: It’s… it’s… the tunnel is growing in size? Like, the floor is melting? Or it’s just weird?
DM: It started as a crack, and it’s spreading, but it stops when it’s maybe… like… you know, a manhole cover size. And so there’s, like, a granite… but the granite, the ice is melting away. And, like, so that… the whole room, which used to be, like, snowy and frost-covered—the frost on the ground is, like, sublimating away. And you can see, like… like… where it was granite has become, sort of… earth, and has opened up. And you can see, like, it’s… it’s… it’s a pathway, right? It’s going down into the… into the dirt.
Jrain: And our other theoretical exit would be back up the sort of slide thing that we slid down, or is that no longer there because it was made out of ice? There.
DM: You could climb back into the labyrinth, I guess, yes. You could go that way.
Jrain: Just making sure that it was still there, yeah.
DM: Yes, it’s still there.
Jrain: I like the hole better. Everybody want to go down this hole?
Justas: Let’s do it!
Finnan: Yeah.
Jrain: To Ekko?
DM: Oh my… I wanted to go talk to her, and… okay.
Finnan: Yeah, just ask…
DM: Cheat!
Finnan: See how she’s doing right now.
DM: She… she kind of is… huddled… there against the wall, not even… she hasn’t even looked up. Like, the whole combat, she was just, like, huddled in a ball, like, with her face between her legs, and… and staring into the… like, and just, like, trying to be as small as possible as the, the sort of noise and… and… sound of battle roared around her. So you go over to her, and—
Finnan: So I wanted to tell her the beast is dead, and then… basically ask if there’s any… like, what’s the… what are the legends? What are the stories about what happens—
DM: Must be—
Finnan: Myths, at least, of people—of the labyrinth and the end.
DM: So when you, when you, like, tap her on the shoulder and… tell her the beast is dead, she… she sort of looks up for a minute, and before even answering your question, she sort of looks around, and when she sees the… the tunnel—like, when she sees the sort of earthen space in the center of the labyrinth—she… she, like, yelps. Like… excitedly, in a way, almost. Like— and… and shouts, this—this—let out, and runs towards it.
Finnan: Let’s follow her.
DM: Yeah.
Jrain: I thought you might like that. Let’s follow her.
Justas: Do you want to do any looking around this space before we leave? I’m…
Jrain: I mean—
Justas: Expert—I don’t know—some sort of, like, a token, or a memento, or, like, a bit of the beast. I think—
Finnan: Yeah.
Justas: Justas would want to bring that back with him.
Finnan: I’m also gonna… I’m gonna use my magic item to—
DM: Are you gonna try and… Kalima’s, like, running into the tunnel. Are you… saying anything to her, or you’re just letting her run into the tunnel?
Justas: Just a sec, Kalima—just one—wait, just one… one second, one second, we—
Finnan: I’ll just say, “Let’s go together,” and, like, try and grab her hand, but my… my ability is only a… it’s a magic action, so it takes 6 seconds.
DM: Yeah, yeah. Your ability is what—3 true facts about something?
Finnan: I learn 3 true facts about the beast.
DM: Okay. I’m looking around.
Jrain: For my arrows while I’m… while this is happening.
DM: Well, you collected a whole bunch of arrows from the— but yeah, you can recover half your arrows. I don’t remember how many you shot, but you also collected… you took 20 or 30 arrows from the corpse, right?
Jrain: Waste not, want not.
DM: Yeah. Kalima—like, as you, like, grab her hand and sort of say to wait—I mean, she would wait for… a few sec… she’s like, “I don’t know how long it’ll last. It’s time to go.” She’s very, very, very hesitant to stay for more than a couple of seconds. Like, she’s… she’s terrified, and almost, sort of, a little bit… out of her mind, and… and desperately wants to run through the tunnel. So she would, like, pause for a minute as you grab her hand, and, like… you’d have enough time to… cast your—use your magic item. But if you wanna, like—
Finnan: I’m basically just telling her, you know, we… we’ve… sticking together is what got us to this point so far. And… you think it’s safe, but it might not be. This could be another one of… Zeyfa’s traps. So let’s just give us a moment, and let’s go together.
DM: Make a… make a Persuasion check.
Jrain: My arrows— I could just go with her.
DM: Yeah, I mean, it’ll take—okay. Well, she pauses for a minute, then. She’s like… she, like, catches her breath, and, like… sort of holds on to… Justas for a minute, like, holding onto your shield or something, and, like, pauses, and, like, catches her breath, and is like, “Be quicker. Last time, I… I don’t know how long it’ll last. I saw this before. Last time.”
Finnan: So I’ll use my magic action while Justas, hopefully, in less than—
DM: 30 seconds can—
Finnan: Grab some.
DM: You’re just trying to, like, carve a piece off the—
Finnan: Cut off its claw or something, I don’t know.
Justas: Yeah, I mean, I think he wants to take a claw with him, but I’d love to take a round to just investigate, see if I can come up with… like, that’s my default, but… is there anything to it? I don’t know—like, is there a magic gem in its forehead powering it? Is there a—
Ekko: Right. Take the head, and then wear it.
DM: The hat… the hat’s pretty big. Make a… make a—
Justas: I mean, big enough to wear as a helmet. That’s what I’m saying. Because I would totally—like, does it have giant horn things? I would definitely make a helmet.
Ekko: Out of that?
DM: So, it’s… it’s basically, like, a huge… like, it’s about a 10-foot-tall white, shaggy beast. I mean, think kind of like a yeti. It has, like, these ice-blue eyes, which look almost like sapphires. And then this, like, gaping maw, and then its arms, which are starting to melt, are, like, sharp, solid ice—and, like, it would fling pieces of its arm at you, and then it would grow back during combat. But now they’re all just melting away. And so it’s like… it’s… it doesn’t really have… its claws are all made of ice, but its fur… so its fur is, like, only its body, right? And it’s, like… it doesn’t have horns, but it does have this, like, gaping maw with… with big teeth.
Justas: Alright, I think Justas is, with a single mighty swing of the enormous battleaxe, gonna cleave its head off in one blow and carry that out with him.
Ekko: You should also… you should take the fur and make, like, a fucking sweet, like—
Justas: I would, but we’re so short on time.
DM: I mean—
Finnan: The head is crazy. Just take the head.
DM: If you want to skin it, it would take you a lot more than the, like, 30 seconds to a minute that Kalima’s willing to wait. That would take you, like, 20 minutes, probably, to skin it.
Ekko: I say we stay, skin it, and then get the sweet coat, and then we’ll see what happens with Kalima.
Justas: I’m… well, with… with the time pressure?
Ekko: Sweet beast. Hold it up. Like, bathrobe, like… come on.
DM: 3 true facts about the beast. I probably should’ve… I knew you were gonna do that.
Justas: It explodes.
Finnan: I told you I was gonna.
DM: I, I didn’t—
Finnan: Last session.
DM: I know. I did have time to actually come up with the exact… I mean, I know what the beast is, I know how to… but I didn’t actually come up with the 3 true facts, so I just—think for a minute. The beast… was… born…
DM: Through…
DM: The beast was… was born of a Fae curse.
DM: The beast—
DM: The—hold on, I gotta… where’s my— the beast’s—
DM: The beast’s master is… is Barquarian the Frostbinder.
DM: And the beast—
DM: The beast…
DM: Can never truly die while the labyrinth stands.
Ekko: Oh, shit.
Justas: Oh, interesting.
Finnan: Get outta here.
Ekko: That seems really hard.
Justas: Justas takes a second look at its head. I mean, it looks real dead, right? Yeah, alright.
Ekko: And isn’t that… it’s just the beast master. There’s another… there’s some of these… the beast is just the—
Finnan: Some other… the beast is gonna reform from ice or something. But we’re gonna escape the labyrinth, so we don’t have to care about that.
Justas: Good.
Finnan: For now.
Jrain: Yeah, Justas is just gonna have to deal with the fact that there’s other people with beast-head accessories, and, you know… they were… they’re a renewable resource, and—
Justas: You try to have a really unique look, but sometimes it happens.
Justas: Let’s get out of here.
Finnan: Let’s get out of here.
DM: Alright. You go through the tunnel. It twists and turns a couple of times—Kalima… but it’s not… I mean, it’s… it’s… it’s a little narrow, crawling through it, but it’s not really that hard to crawl through. And… after about… 10 minutes of sort of… it’s… it’s… it’s odd. You’re, like, in the dark. I mean, you have your light spell, but you’re in the dark. It’s not very clear where the… where the… it’s not very clear where the… the tunnel is going. It twists a few times, it splits once, but, you know, one branch is clearly a dead end. It’s… it’s like cold, permafrost-y kind of earth that you’re… that you’re crawling through. And after… maybe 10 minutes, you emerge from this tunnel, which seems to almost vanish into snow and ice behind you, as you find yourself standing on a strange and narrow pathway on a cliff face. The sun hangs low in the sky above you, although it’s barely peeking through these dense, gray, late-winter—late-afternoon winter clouds hanging across the sky. And you’re on a… you’re on a cliff face, right? So you’re looking… you’re standing on a narrow path carved into a cliff. You know, looking out over this big empty space. You can’t see the other side; there’s, like, fog hanging—but floating in the empty space are 3 massive rocks, like… the size of… I don’t know, a city block, or even bigger.

DM: On one of the three rocks is an elaborate Palace of Ice. It’s like… it looks like maybe it has 50 rooms, and it has… it’s not defensive. I mean, it’s floating on a rock in the middle of the… in the middle of… of a chasm carved out of ice. It has 3 towers that… that sort of… come up and then form together in, like, a peak at the top. And there’s, like, a… chamber at the top of the three towers, as where they… where they join together. They’re, like, arched inward.

DM: On one of the stone—one of the stones, you can see—one of these giant rocks you can see floating in the chasm is… a… there’s a small pond. You can see, like, there’s a small pond, mostly frozen over, but with a little bit of water. There’s some cattle grazing on it. There’s, like, sort of… rough grass—long-haired, shaggy cattle that you would see up in the, sort of, Lavnock Plateau—the highlands south of here. But there’s maybe 50 or 60 cattle grazing on this giant rock floating in the chasm.

DM: And then the third rock… is, like, oddly and unconsciously lush. There’s, like, trees growing, and, like… like… thick plants growing, and you can see steam. There’s, like— from the center of it, there’s, like, a column of steam sort of bubbling up. And there’s, like, a rope bridge that goes… the ice rock is totally isolated—there’s no… it’s not connected to anything—but the other two rocks are connected by these… roughly made rope bridges, which then run into the cliff, although you can’t quite see—it’s like… it goes up a little bit, right? So you… something on the cliff face ahead above you is where the… the rope bridge connects.

DM: And there’s a path! It’s about… maybe… ~50 feet up from where you’re standing—maybe more like 50 feet up from where you’re standing. There’s a… there’s a switchback path carved in the… in the side of the cliff going up. And you can see, like… along the path, there’s these holes in the cliff. Like, that look like chiseled out or dug out.
Ekko: Like, handholds?
DM: They’re big. They’re like… that big. So it’s a switchbacked path cut in the side of the cliff. There’s no… it’s only, like… this wide, so, you know, it’s only… so it’s a little bit nerve-wracking walking on it, because, like, off to the left-hand side is… as far as you can tell, you can… not… I mean, it’s snow below you, right? Like, it’s a… it almost looks like the other side of the storm that you saw when you first came in. It’s the same vibe—it’s like this infinite snowy weather beneath you.

DM: The path is… it sort of goes up maybe 15 feet, and then switchbacks, and then 15 feet, and switchbacks. There’s maybe 10 switchbacks to go up, or 20 switch— even more—15 switchbacks to go up 50 feet. So it’s not that steep.
Ekko: Flying?
DM: Yeah, you could fly. Nothing’s… I mean, you could jump off the side and fly, as far as you can tell. It seems… I mean, there’s a gray fog out across, so, like, past these three floating rocks is only a gray fog. Like, you can’t really see—
Finnan: How far away is the Ice Palace?
DM: The Ice Palace is maybe… 200… 150 feet? 200 feet?
Finnan: Okay. I… I will… I will, like, gather everybody and say… I assume we’re gonna climb and… but… and I look over at my summoned fey—which lasts for an hour—my little friend here can fly and speak, still then. Anybody object if I send him to… explore the palace while we do something else?
DM: Can you telepathically communicate, or does it have to come back?
Finnan: Has to come back and talk.
DM: Okay.
Finnan: Might just totally vanish. And in fact, it only speaks Sylvan. So unless somebody speaks Sylvan, I can’t actually understand it, but it understands me, and it can, like, draw and stuff.
DM: Right.
Finnan: But maybe somebody speaks Sylvan.
Jrain: Right.
Ekko: Good, that’s great. Saves me a trip.
Jrain: I speak Sylvan.
Finnan: So, I will tell the mirthful fey spirit to… fly across. But what’s the name of the beast’s master?
Jrain: [unintelligible].
DM: Barquarian the Frostbinder.
Finnan: Fly across and… oops, my headphones died. Can you hear me?
DM: Yep.
Finnan: Fly across, introduce himself as a messenger from… and I’m just gonna try and think about the… what’s the furthest-distance fey realm that Finnan knows? It’s probably… somewhere over by Chartan, or something like that—the… the… meh.
Jrain: Good morning.
Finnan: Doesn’t matter. It’s in the lore of the Feywild. Gotta look up—look up the book. “A messenger from Gleamwater, seeking an audience with… Frostbinder guy.”
DM: Aquarian.
Finnan: For Barquarian? Be polite. The fey speaks Sylvan, so communicate in Sylvan. If nobody’s there, just come back. And if… if you talk to anybody, you know—do your best to make an excuse and get out of there in 45 minutes. So we still have, like, 10 minutes to talk to you when you get back.
DM: What’s the—that’s the sum total of your… of your—
DM: Oh, you’re—wait, Conjure… oh, no, that’s the wrong—sorry, this is Conjure Fey Spirit, not Conjure Fey.
Finnan: I mean, the thing’s Charisma is 16, Intelligence is 14, so it’s like, you know… that’s what I was trying to look up. It gets the vibe of my instructions, right?
DM: Yeah.
Finnan: Scout, try and blend in, try to learn what you can. You know—
DM: Okay. Summon Fey—that’s the spell I was looking for. And this is a mirthful fey.
Finnan: Yep.
DM: Okay, make it crispy! Just, let’s, let’s, let’s—
Finnan: Sorry, I want to check—
DM: Just roll a d20 and add the fey’s Charisma to it.
DM: 16 plus—
Finnan: Three.
DM: Yep, okay. So I’ll… the fey flies off. What are the rest of you doing? Kalima—
Finnan: I will give it my last—
DM: Inspiration. Okay.
Finnan: In case it has to make any more checks.
DM: Okay. Kalima, as you, like… up here—here, come out on the cliff face here—sort of looks at Finnan and Justas and is like, “Come. Wait. I…” She’s like, “I never thought… I don’t know how I’m back here. How I’m back home.” [garble] “If Xypher? finds you, I… I don’t think… he’ll be happy. [garble] Can your… can your friends be less conspicuous? Who’s gonna see us? Come, come to… come to my sister’s. Come with me.”
Justas: Yeah, we’ll go. Yeah, of course.
Finnan: Eolo’s… Eolo will use his masked form to… shapeshift for 3 hours into a human.
DM: Okay. Who’s gonna— the, the, the village!
DM: Not… not all of them are—
DM: [garble] As soon as they can. Stay hidden. Eric, you missed Eolo killing the beast with a shot to the head? And Justas cutting its head off and carrying it around.
Justas: Put it in a backpack by now, you know.
Ekko: Yeah, I rolled for— and didn’t miss. I hit, like, 5 times. Little low on damage? You can rib me later.
DM: You are now… on a cliff. On a switchback leading up the side of a cliff, looking out across a chasm, with 3 giant stones floating in the chasm—one of them with an ice palace, one of them with a lush forest/cropland—you see some, like, food growing, and with that steam coming out of it—and one of them with some… a frozen pond, or a partially frozen pond, and a bunch of highland cattle.
Jrain: So… can we ask Kalima if this is the view she’s used to looking at from home?
DM: Yeah, she seems, like, totally… yeah, this seems very normal. This is home and very normal, but she’s, like, hushing you, like, “Don’t let anybody see you when we get to the top. Stay hidden, stay—” wow.
Justas: Kalima, where can you hide us for at least a few hours? Where can we lay low?
DM: My sister will… not tell anybody. We’ll go to her house.
Ekko: I want to ask her, while we’re walking, who lives in the palace.
DM: Xypher?
Ekko: When she says home, is she talking generally about this whole area, or specifically the palace?
DM: No, there’s a village. She, like—she’s… “The people—my people—Belusa—it’s up…” She points. “The village is up!”
Ekko: But is she pointing at one of the three floating rocks?
DM: No. There’s, like… as you go up the cliff—sorry, maybe this wasn’t clear in my description—like, there’s… the cliff recesses quite a bit up 50 feet, so there’s, like, there’s a switchback going up, but then… the cliff face you’re on… there’s a large… it’s like—you can’t see, because you’re on the… you can’t really see because you’re on the face of the cliff, but if you look up—as you look up—it’s… there’s clearly a big open space on the side of the cliff before it keeps going up, right? So, like, when you get to the top, there’s clearly space, as you actually—as you start climbing, you see there’s, like, a trickle of water, like a stream trickling down, like, coming from somewhere. So, like… she tells you, there’s, like, a village on the side of the—
Ekko: Got it.
DM: There’s… there’s like a… you can actually see the rope bridge going somewhere, too. Like, the bridge from one of the—from one of the floating rocks—goes to the cliff face, but then again, it’s like… a wide space where the cliff comes up, and then goes like this, and then goes like that, and then goes up again, right? So there’s a big flat space on the side of the cliff, like a ledge—like a large ledge.
Ekko: Ekko will ask her, like, what’s on the floating rocks? The other two, not the palace.
DM: Darefoot?
Justas: How do you get there?
DM: This rope bridge. I mean, there’s—
Justas: Oh, okay, okay.
DM: She points, like… the bridges.
Justas: I don’t ask the question if I see the bridge.
DM: I know, I know, I know, I know. The only place that’s not connected by bridges is the Ice Palace, which is just floating on its own. I mean, floating rocks in the middle of the chasm are very… great-chasm— I mean, this is something that Ekko would have seen before. It’s not, like, unusual, necessarily, if you’re exploring the depths of the chasm to come across a rock just floating in the sky.
Ekko: Oh, so this is not an [unintelligible].
DM: Wow! I mean, “not unusual,” I guess, is not a good way of putting it. It’s a very chasm-like phenomenon.
Ekko: Got it, okay.
DM: Right. I mean, it’s definitely unusual, and usually it wouldn’t be so… I mean, there’s something odd going on here, as far as you can see. So… you climb up? Are you— as you… as you pass by these, like, holes in the… in the side, you can actually see they’re, like— they look like… carved—like, chiseled out—like, parts of the wall of the chasm that have been chiseled out. You could actually see, like… marks on the side, and there’s, like… rock—there’s, like, loose rocks at the bottom, and, like, they go in maybe 10 feet. You could actually climb in and, like… and, like, maybe hide in here. Pull some of your, you know… a lot of them are big enough for a person to climb into. When they look—
Justas: What are they for?
DM: Quarrying stone.
Justas: Why don’t we… hide in these?
DM: She, I mean… if you want to.
Justas: I think we’re safer with your sister.
Finnan: Let’s get to the village, at least.
DM: I think—
Finnan: It starts her somewhere.
DM: Someone might come down here.
DM: She kind of looks over her shoulder at the palace, and kind of traces the line of sight with her eyes. It’s… it’s… it’s not… very hidden.
Justas: Okay.
Finnan: That’s okay, they’re gonna be distracted by the messenger from Gleamwater for a while, so—
DM: So are you doing… I mean, so you… as you approach the top, like, Kalima motions for you to wait, and, like, goes up herself.
Finnan: Fine.
