DM: That’s—
DM: I… let me just start some music… I might have to just step away for 3 minutes. An inopportune time shortly after we start, just to light Hanukkah candles. But… yeah. And… computer audio…
DM: Can you guys hear the music? Yep.
DM: So, can every— so… you’ve just fallen down this tunnel into a… although, actually, wait, it’s dark. Except somebody who, like… okay. Jrain has a light spell on an arrow, and Justas has a light spell… oh, maybe… no, ’cause Kalima is hiding in the illusion, so would have passed off the light spell, one presumes. Yeah. So, I guess Justas has the light. You can see some here. So, everybody’s slid down into this space, and there’s this beast here. I don’t see anything, Mike. It says, “Wait for your DM to start the game session.” Okay, how about that? The object…
Eolo: Just reload.
DM: No, no, no, there’s a big button called Start Session. Giant red button on the bottom of the screen called Start Session, which I failed to press.
Eolo: Ugh.
DM: That was not a UI issue with D&D Beyond. So you should be able to move where you are, everybody. So this is, like… this.
Finnan: Where’s Eolo? Because I’m riding on Eolo’s back.
DM: This area down here is snow. You came— this at the top is the black slide where you came down.
Eolo: Yeah, I don’t see my…
Finnan: Mike, you have to put Eolo out. Oh, where is—
DM: I don’t… sorry, Eric, I forgot you.
Eolo: Oh, they’re in. There I am.
Finnan: So, the one annoying… one annoying thing about this is I can’t resize myself.
DM: Could be small.
Finnan: Be small. I’m riding on Eolo’s back. Great. So wherever you are, that’s where I am.
Eolo: Error. Thoughtfully going directly into the mouth of danger.
Finnan: Of course you are. Why am I on your back instead of Ekko’s back?
DM: I’ll brb.
DM: Wait. Man, you guys, you know, you guys are… slightly confusing. Okay.
DM: One second, let me just…
DM: M—
DM: Okay.
DM: So, is everybody where they are? So, Justas was, like—
DM: Short squares Where is Justas? You under— oh, you’re right there. Okay.
DM: And as new.
DM: As Justas screams in… and yells, coming… I forget what he yelled, but something… something clever.
Justas: Something clever!
Eolo: Exactly.
DM: These… these piles of frost and snow start to form next to… and around each of you.
DM: As these… as these… as these… snow— as this, as this, like… these, like, ex— this huge beast— well, large beast. Shaggy white fur, cold. Ice for eyes. And it roars as Justas calls out his challenge, and… from the… from the icy ground, these… shadowy echoes— small echoes of the beast, basically— arise from the snow and form, like, half… half shadow, half… half ice, half snow. And each one, as of… I mean, roll initiative, but each one is… is… so, hold on, how do I…
DM: So, tell me what you all got for—
Justas: Weddings?
DM: Justas got an 8.
Justas: Yep.
DM: Okay.
Eolo: How do I open the… the thing with the… this is the worst.
DM: You, as just— again, as Justas screams— these echoes, they’re… they’re, like, forming and reaching out as… claws of ice form around each one, reaching out to attack you.
Eolo: Well, I think I got a 26, but I was trying to open the thing that shows you the rolls, but I can’t remember where it is.
Ekko: Oh, there it is.
Jrain: I got a 25.
DM: 16. Yeah. Ekko got a 16 and 10.
Finnan: 20.
Eolo: Oh, there it is.
Finnan: But I don’t know why it’s not showing up in the game log, which is weird.
DM: The… let’s see…
Eolo: So it’s not showing—
DM: Can you… it’s the old one now.
Eolo: No, it’s showing the last session.
Finnan: Yeah, the game log isn’t working for some reason, but I can see it if I roll on my character sheet.
Finnan: Strange.
DM: Hold on a s—
Eolo: …for console errors.
DM: You guys got really good initiative rolls. You were prepared for combat to occur.
Finnan: Oh, you know what I think you gotta do?
DM: I’ll lock it.
Finnan: If you have… if you have… if you have Beyond20, you have to turn on “Use D&D Beyond’s digital dice.” Otherwise, Beyond20 grabs it before… before it gets to D&D Beyond. I don’t know how you turn off Beyond— you should be able to just disable Beyond20.
Eolo: Oh, like, the browser extension?
Finnan: Yeah, the browser extension.
Eolo: Beyond20…
Justas: That’s why mine worked— I’m in a browser without Beyond20 installed right now.
Finnan: Yeah, if you just disable Beyond20, it should.
Eolo: But how? Options…
Jrain: I have to.
DM: You should be able to just— you can’t just see your—
Eolo: Oh, there, I switched it off. Okay.
Jrain: I can see my rolls in my character sheet window.
DM: You can just… you can just pretend like we’re rolling real dice and shout them out.
Eolo: Yeah. Just watch out for Kong. Just watch out for Kong when we do that.
DM: Yeah, yeah.
Ekko: Is that it?
DM: So, as the… as these… these snow creatures… form. Yo, you’re flying?
Finnan: Yeah?
DM: Okay.
DM: This fir— so as, as, as the… this… this first creature right here, standing in front of Eolo, forms into this swirling… mass of shadow and snow, and it… one of its claws— bam— sort of grows long, and ice… it swings. And ice comes flying up 30 feet in the air towards Eolo, but slices just past you. And as that happens, these shadowy… these shadowy tentacles stretch from the creature, and almost wrap themselves around— sort of— the air near Eolo.
Eolo: Whoa.
DM: You feel… like… slowed, like the shadowy tentacles are, like, draining the energy from you, and you feel like it takes extra energy to move. Your speed feels reduced. Your speed is reduced by 10.
Eolo: Cool.
DM: And now it’s your turn.
Eolo: Was that all that stuff coming from the beast, or from—
DM: No, no, no. The beast has not done any— it roared, and these echoes appeared, but these… these living snow, rather, appeared. But nothing has happened from the beast. It’s coming from this creature right in front of you. But there’s one that’s grown up— there’s something that’s grown up next to every single one of you, okay?
Eolo: Yeah.
DM: Creature in front of you.
Eolo: Let’s see, where do I do that? Crossbow… That’s 19 to hit?
DM: Misses.
Eolo: I rolled the right thing.
DM: Okay.
DM: You guys figure out your techies. Just… I’m gonna step away for one minute just to light candles, because Charlie really wants me. Okay? Everybody, sorry.
Eolo: That’s cool.
Jrain: I’m gonna check on Nathaniel’s second dinner.
Justas: Can I ask a real seat?
Ekko: That’s true.
Finnan: Yeah.
Justas: Is he a hobbit? Alright, so Shield of Faith is a bonus action spell. As a War Domain Cleric, I can use Channel Divinity to cast it, which is great.
DM: I use Channel Divinity to cast a spell whose casting time is a bonus action.
Justas: Do I use a bonus action because that’s the casting time, or an action because it’s Channel Divinity?
Finnan: That’s a good question.
Finnan: Where does it sit?
Justas: It’s a 6th level…
Finnan: Oh, okay, yeah, yeah— no, no, it’s… you cast it as normal, but rather than using a spell slot, you use a Channel Divinity.
Justas: So it remains—
Finnan: Bonus action. Yeah.
Justas: Cool.
Finnan: But that’s great, because that means you can cast another spell as your action. Cast Spirit Guardians and go stomp things.
Justas: Do we think this is the beast at the center of the maze? Like, the big… the big bad, or—
Finnan: I assume it must be. Right?
Eolo: Just, like, a friend of the big bad.
Justas: Neighbor… roommate?
Ekko: It’s him.
Finnan: Yeah?
Ekko: So, when Ekko shapeshifts and then attacks, in D&D Beyond, where are my attacks?
Ekko: Like, right now, I’ve got an attack that’s a cantrip, like Starry Wisp.
Finnan: You have to… it’s not… it’s because you’re a druid. Let me… let me…
Eolo: You need to use the stat block.
Finnan: Here’s the… here’s the link. I’m putting it in chat.
Ekko: Perfect, thank you.
Finnan: You need to use that stat block instead of… instead of your stat block.
Eolo: And my strategy is basically to just shoot things, and then I have psion— like, when I hit them, then I can do more stuff. But I have to hit first. Like, I can use Psionic Strike, and then I get advantage after hitting… and then there’s Second Wind that I can do an extra attack.
Finnan: But also, Kong, remember— remember— if you can: when you change, your AC is 17, not whatever the polar bear’s AC is. You get 18 temporary hit points, and—
DM: Are you coaching everybody? That’s good.
Finnan: You deal radiant—
DM: I haven’t come back.
Finnan: Instead of normal damage, and you should probably cast a spell before you shift— like, cast something strong, like Conjure Animals, or if you want to do… that’s probably your best bet, Conjure Animals. Conjure Animals, that’s the spell Taldin would sometimes use, that whenever… whenever a creature is within 10 feet of the pack, you can do damage to them. And you cast it, and then you Wild Shape, and so you have the spell going while you’re in your Wild Shape.
DM: Perfect. And then—
Ekko: Sorry, for… my rend attack says, “Melee attack roll +7, hit 9, 1DA + 5.”
Finnan: Just roll 1d8 + 5. Ignore the 9.
Ekko: Okay, got it.
Finnan: And you make 2 attacks, and you’re resistant to cold damage, and your AC is 17.
DM: Oh wait, you’re resistant to cold damage? That’s a really, really, really, really, really, really, really useful feature.
Eolo: Maybe some cold damage coming up, I… I sense. Alright, so I’m gonna take my second crossbow shot.
DM: Sorry, you rolled in what you took— what, you rolled a 19?
Eolo: For the first one.
DM: Yeah. So you see your arrow fly towards it, and it… it, like… this… the tendrils, like, form an ice shield, and it sort of bounces off this creature’s icy chest.
Eolo: And Eolo sighs and swings his left arm up to fire again, rolling a 27 to hit.
DM: That hits. Hold on a second. How much damage?
Eolo: 8 piercing damage, and then I can use my… where is the thing? The Psionic Strike…
DM: As you hit it— hold on— as you hit it, the ice— the icicle— like, forms in front of it. And your arrow, like, sort of starts to turn to… to… nothingness as it hits the ice, and this bolt of cold comes shooting back at you. And you take 6 points of ice damage.
Eolo: Ay, ay, aye.
DM: But—
Eolo: Can I do my psionic strike, or no?
DM: Yes. You can do your Psionic Strike.
Eolo: Or—
DM: 5 additional damage.
Eolo: Let’s… do I have to expend a psionic energy die? Where are those things? How much you redesign this entire UI?
DM: The… wait, Kate, Jrain usually uses a bow, right? Like, you’re equipped—
Jrain: …for the back.
DM: That was your main weapon? Okay. The creature… the creature standing next to you— again, these… these black— these black tentacles come, sort of— it, it, first of all, swings— well—
Finnan: Yep. Eolo gets a third attack.
DM: Oh, you all get 3 attacks?
Eolo: Why is that, Tim?
Finnan: Don’t you have—
DM: Oh, yeah, yeah, you do, because you have Crossbow Expert— yep, you have a light weapon. You can shoot— you can shoot two attacks, plus a— that’s why you have two crossbows, because you get three attacks. Sorry, I forgot.
Finnan: It takes your breath.
Eolo: Reflected.
Finnan: But you didn’t use your bonus action for anything.
Eolo: True.
DM: You can use a bonus action to make an attack if you wield two weapons. You can use a bonus action to make an attack with one of your two weapons.
Eolo: No, they’re up high.
DM: And because you have Crossbow Expert, your crossbow’s basically— Eolo’s hands move faster than the eye can see, and he loads crossbow bolts as he’s shooting.
Eolo: Right. Alright, so I… fire a third time.
Finnan: You have a pen?
Eolo: That guy had been— I have advantage, that’s what I was gonna say, yes.
DM: Do that, which is fair.
Eolo: Roll twice. That’s an 11— I’m gonna need to use again… my roll again for a 15.
DM: Again, this icy… this icy thickness— like, it’s… thick ice forms on its chest, and your arrows just vanish into the ice. So did the first strike do any damage?
Eolo: But the Psionic Strike did. I could hit only 5. That’s not good. Oh, because the crossbow bolts are not magical, maybe.
DM: I hope you figure this out, or you guys might all die, but Tim will figure it out for you, I think.
Eolo: Wait, I can make… I can magic my crossbow bolts.
DM: The one next to Jrain— again, forms these tentacles and strikes with two claw attacks. Two icy claws come flying towards you. What is your AC, Kate? 16? Yeah.
DM: Both of the claws hit, and it does 12 points of cold damage.
Jrain: I know.
DM: Again, these black tentacles curl around you, and you feel drained of energy, and your speed is reduced by 10. And it… it looks at you and howls with this piercing sound, and make a Wisdom saving throw.
Jrain: 11.
DM: You can take— so you’re— you’re… the howl echoes around your head, and you… you… it’s… it’s like… bouncing and distracting you. Next turn, on your turn, you can either take an action or a bonus action, but not both.
Jrain: Okay.
DM: And it’s now your turn.
Jrain: I’m going to…
Jrain: Does my beast get its own attack no matter what? Is that, like, separate? Or is that also limited by this bonus action/action thing? Like, I can only—
DM: I have my—
Jrain: …attack, or I can attack.
DM: I don’t actually know what your— I should probably know what your character does more than me. Tim, do you know offhand how Kate’s beast works? You can—
Finnan: It doesn’t do anything unless you command it to attack. You can—
Jrain: But is the command my action? Or my bonus action?
Finnan: Either… you can either use your bonus action, or you can trade one of your attacks.
DM: If you take the Attack action, you can give up one of your two attacks.
Finnan: …attacks in order for the beast to do something.
Jrain: That’s what I thought.
Jrain: So I effectively have two attacks and a bonus attack action, and I can only do either my two attacks or my bonus action, but obviously if I have two attacks, then I could still do one and bonus action, or use my beast for the other one. Alright. Now that we’ve sorted that all out, I… due to… I guess I’ll just have my beast attack first, and then I’ll see what I do. So, I send my beast in to do its melee attack.
DM: Your bird flies— roll ahead.
Jrain: Is that just a d20?
DM: Yep.
Jrain: Does it have a plus to that, or is it just—
DM: Yeah, it should be— let’s see— Beast of the Sky, its attack is your spell attack modifier. So… +6.
Jrain: Okay, so 17 is what it gets. That hits? 11 + 6. Alright.
DM: Your bird comes flying in, so you do 1d4… +3 plus… 1d4 + 6.
DM: And that’s the one in front of you?
Jrain: Yeah. So that’s 3 on the dice, so—
Jrain: 9.
DM: So the beast comes flying in and cuts, seemingly easily, through the snow of this creature. Your turn?
Jrain: Well… it’s really showing me how it’s done.
DM: You’re… you’re… you’re shooting it?
Jrain: But due to my general inability to do anything but— yes. I will just… choose to not learn from my party’s experiences and just take a shot at it myself.
DM: Alright, roll ahead.
Jrain: Nothing else to do. Might as well. Alright.
Jrain: So I rolled a 23.
DM: That hits.
Jrain: Er— okay. Alright.
Jrain: So my 1d8 + 4 is 9.
DM: So as the arrow flies into it— again, just like when Eolo shot it— this icy patch forms in front of it. And the arrow bounces off, and it shoots back at you. This… this icicle comes flying back at you, and you take 5 points of damage.
Jrain: Maybe it’s better not to attack.
DM: Eh.
Jrain: I forgot about the possibly doing myself damage part.
DM: The one— so… Finnan, you’re on Eolo’s back, right?
Finnan: Yep.
DM: So this one, again, its claw comes flying out.
Finnan: I’m gonna… I’ve gotta have at least half cover, if not three-quarters cover. It’s underneath us, right?
DM: It is underneath you. You probably do have… probably… three-quarters cover, but I rolled a 20.
Finnan: Okay.
DM: You take 9 points of cold damage. And your speed is also reduced by 10 as it hits you. Your turn.
Finnan: Okay, the first thing I’ll do is shout telepathically in Jrain and Eolo’s heads: “I don’t think your arrows can hurt them. Focus on the beast.” And then I will hold up my hand and say a word in… say some fancy Sylvan word. And out of the ring on my hand, magic begins to form, and I’m gonna summon a fey spirit. And I’m going to make it… so that’s a 3rd-level slot. I am going to make it a—
DM: Really? This is some in fact.
Finnan: Yeah, I really… we really need Kenzo, like… are they immune to charm? Are they bad at Wisdom saves? Where’s Sylphie? when you need it? I am… I am going to make it… I’ll try… I’ll try charmed. See what happens. I’m gonna make it—
DM: I’m gonna make it mirthful.
Finnan: And I’m going to put it… so it’s a little… it’s a little fey spirit.
DM: Okay.
Finnan: Let’s see, we can put a… something like… that. But I don’t know. Oh yeah, I can control that. I mean, this is all pretty close together. So, I’m gonna put it there, and it will attack the beast.
Finnan: Why can’t I… so annoying. So many things I can’t roll. Okay, roll dice. It does not hit. However, the living snow that’s been attacking me has to make a Wisdom saving throw or it is charmed.
DM: Okay.
Finnan: DC 15.
DM: The… as you— as this, sort of, mirthful laugh from the fey drifts towards the snow, these, like, echoes of dust almost spiral around this creature’s head, almost like shielding it from the noise of the charm. Like it’s… like it’s protected somehow from your spell, and it makes the save.
DM: 8th.
Finnan: I will… bonus action! Yeah. Justas, Bardic Inspiration. And that ends my turn.
DM: One of these appeared near where Kalima is hiding. But, let’s see… you do have a— you do have a— she’s behind an illusion.
Finnan: She’s… she’s behind— yeah, she’s behind an illusion.
DM: It kind of pokes around for a little bit, slightly confused, like it doesn’t see her at first, and pokes against the wall. It seems like it… it seems to be looking for something, but is not very good at seeing through illusions.
DM: Oh wait, hold on. I got the initiative. Then this one— Ekko, you up in the sky? Kong, is Ekko flying?
DM: Or did you land?
Ekko: I’m about to turn into a bear, so…
DM: But have you landed yet? Or are you still flying at the moment?
Ekko: Sure, I’ll still be flying at the moment.
DM: So it… swings at you, again extending just one claw with this long reach, and it just goes flying past you. But again, you can see these, like, dark tendrils of… of… of, of, like, shadow swirling towards you. And now it’s your turn. Again, everybody’s speed is reduced by 10.
Ekko: Alright. Yeah, I will… I will cast Conjure Animals.
Ekko: And conjure a large pack of spectral, intangible animals.
DM: Okay. That’s a 10-foot radius, I think, right?
Ekko: The pack moves within 10 feet of a creature you can see.
Finnan: It’s a large pack.
DM: Yeah, and it can move… it—
Finnan: It’s within 10 feet of the— so… Kong, Ekko’s strategy here is to— because on your turn, when you move, you can move the thing up to 30 feet, and every time it moves within 10 feet of a creature, you force them to make a Dex save or take damage. You should be able to get it to hit practically everything.
Ekko: What do you mean? Like, I said, okay, so this is my thing.
Finnan: So it can move 30 feet, right? So—
Ekko: Oh, I see.
Finnan: It’s actually much bigger than that, because it’s a Large creature with a 10-foot radius around the Large creature.
Ekko: How do I make this bigger?
Eolo: What creature is it?
DM: Oh, I see. It’s, it’s—
Finnan: This is something Roll20 is better at, so it’s… so it’s a Large creature, and then 2 squares out, so it’s 3 squares total, yeah.
DM: Nice. That’s one too big. I think that’s one too big.
Ekko: No.
Finnan: No, that’s right. That’s right. That’s perfect.
DM: Yeah, yeah.
Finnan: Center.
DM: Yeah, yeah. Right?
Finnan: So every— so if you summon it— you summon it, like… like, right—
DM: Yeah, right. Yeah.
Finnan: Put it there, and then move it 1, 2… 3, 4, 5, 6. You hit everybody except for that— although you probably want to hit that one. So let’s say we put it… put it here. You go 1, 2, 3—
Finnan: Maybe you have to go protect Kalima or something, but if you start it here, you can go 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. You hit every single creature on the battlefield except for this one.
Ekko: Sweet. My computer is, like, freezing up, or something is going on. You guys can still hear me? Can you see me? Yeah. I can’t move past the window. It’s really weird.
Eolo: Hmm.
Ekko: This is weird. My, like, screen is, like, frozen. Like, I can’t actually— that’s very annoying. Well, I may have to restart my computer, but let me— let me do my— so, do I… so… I can move the circle within my turn, or—
Finnan: Yep. As part of— when you move, you can move it 30 feet.
Ekko: Got it, okay. So, I guess I’ll position it first to hit the first group, and then move it to the second spot, to hit the second group.
Finnan: Actually, I wonder if you— well, it’s… I don’t… it’s actually not entirely clear.
Ekko: You guys hear me?
DM: Yep. Yeah, yeah.
Ekko: So weird.
Finnan: It doesn’t— it doesn’t force, at least as far as I can tell, it doesn’t force saves when it appears. It only forces saves when it moves.
Ekko: I see, so this round I can only do it once?
Finnan: You can still hit everybody except for this one. Except for this one in the corner here, right? Because you make it appear, and then you make it move. You make it move 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and it hits every single creature on the battlefield. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5— I had it. Right? So it appears here, and then it goes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6.
DM: I’m frozen now. Okay. Dude. Yes, we will.
Ekko: Okay, guys, D&D Beyond broke my computer. Like, it full-on just, like, shut off.
Finnan: Keith.
Ekko: I’ve never seen that happen before.
DM: Very exciting. Yeah.
Ekko: Anyways, I will… I will… I’ll do the things. I’m gonna attack— I’ll attack twice as a polar bear.
Finnan: You can’t attack because you cast the spell. You can still turn into the polar bear and do your spell thing. So everybody has to make a— everybody on the battlefield except for this living— except for K has to make a Dex save or take 3d10—
DM: Slashing damage.
Justas: Dex save, you say.
Finnan: Not—
DM: Only the bad guys, only the people—
Finnan: Yeah.
DM: Yeah, you’re just saying. Does somebody want to roll—
Finnan: Yeah, I got it.
DM: Okay, so… so this one— as the thing appears and moves past this, the ice around the edge of this creature next to Ekko thickens, and the claws of the beasts of the Conjure Animals bounce off it. The same happens to this… this creature here, right? As the beasts come past it, like, the snow thickens, and, like, the claws of the beasts just bounce off it. The one… here… you guys can see my— totally, yeah. That does not seem to happen for the one on the top.
DM: You said 5 damage?
Finnan: Yeah.
DM: Similarly, the ones next to Justas and Eolo— what is it, DC—
Finnan: 15. I need to look at Ekko’s. Do you see 15 Dex save?
DM: So this one here dodges out of the way. This one also takes the damage. Oh, and then it goes over the beast, too?
Finnan: Now it’s sitting right here.
DM: Okay.
Finnan: And I’ll just— I’ll also shout out to Ekko to, like, just go stand— since you can’t attack— just go, like… you know, stand protectively near Kalima to try and keep it from… killing her.
Ekko: Alright, cool.
DM: The beast looks at… the polar bear. And just these icy blue eyes flash. Make a Con saving throw.
Finnan: Add your wisdom modifier to your Con— wait, hold on, let me check. I’m pretty sure it just says Con saving throws— it might say concentration. Yeah, so make a Con saving throw and add 4.
DM: But you’re welcome.
Ekko: I’m so sorry. Roll… what again?
DM: Con saving throw.
Ekko: Okay, give me one second. Sorry, my computer’s reloading all the things… Con saving throw… do-do-do is…
Ekko: 18.
DM: You… your polar bear nature just— this gaze does not affect you. Whatever these icy blue stares, you just stare back, and it glances away first. It loses the staring contest with the polar bear.
DM: The one in front of Justas, again, like, steps forward with these icy claws.
DM: Both of them hit for 12 points of cold damage.
Justas: Awesome.
DM: And then it, again, shrieks at you with this distracting, echoing noise. Make a Wisdom saving throw.
Finnan: Don’t forget you have Bardic if you need it, but I’m sure you don’t need it with that.
DM: No, you’re fine. Your turn.
Justas: Alright. As a bonus action, I use Channel Divinity to cast Shield of Faith.
DM: Okay. Oh, and Kong, don’t forget— your magic item gives you the Jump spell while you’re a polar bear. So you can jump 30 feet for a 10-foot move.
Ekko: Sweet.
Eolo: Cool.
Justas: I don’t see in D&D Beyond it adjusting my AC automatically, but that does up it to 21. Okay. Then I cast… Spirit Guardians! Alright, Spirit Guardians.
DM: Wait, you can’t cast two leveled—
Finnan: Channel Divinity.
DM: Oh, Channel Divinity— okay, you can because of Channel Divinity. Okay.
Justas: So, a 15-foot-radius emanation extends from me, in which everything inside it at the start of their turn, or when I move into their space, has to make a DC 14 Wisdom save or take 3d8 radiant damage.
DM: Ehhhh.
Justas: Is there an easy way to draw that around me on the map?
DM: I mean, you could draw… you could make the little circles.
Finnan: Yeah, but—
DM: 15…
DM: Oop. No, here, I got it.
Justas: So it should encompass the three—
Finnan: That’s one square too small.
DM: I know, I know, I know, I’m trying to fix it. There we go. Eh… it’s like… it’s like that, right?
Finnan: It’s 15-foot emanation, so it’s 3 squares in every direction from—
DM: Right, okay, so it’s one— so it’s… so it’s actually back—
Finnan: So it’s that, yeah.
Justas: So she’ll get 4 Living Snows and the beast.
DM: Yeah, and that is… whenever a creature enters or ends its turn.
Finnan: And the emanation enters their space, so it hits on trigger. It hits on cast.
DM: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Finnan: They can only make it once a turn, but if they don’t get out of the— if they don’t get out, they have to make it every— when they end their turn as well.
DM: Yeah, okay, so hold on. What is it— a Wisdom saving throw?
Justas: 14.
DM: The one down— starting with the one at the bottom next to Finnan— the snow around it just, like, shakes off and fights off the Spirit Guardians, as it’s unaffected by the spell. The one next to Eolo makes the save. The beast makes the save. The one next to you does not make the save. And hold on a sec… yeah, okay. And the one next to Jrain—
DM: Well, it was 15, you said?
Justas: 14.
DM: Just barely makes the save.
Justas: Bummer. Alright, so that’s 12 radiant to the one next to me, then.
DM: Okay.
Justas: Which ends my turn.
Finnan: Well, you can move if you want to.
Justas: I don’t think that I want to right now.
Finnan: I think we should focus fire on the beast, to be honest. But you can stay there— I mean, you can close in on it.
Finnan: At the beginning of your turn, you can move to the beast. Remember, all those snows have… their speed is halved.
DM: This guy moves out of the emanation and then… fires at— but misses.
DM: Oh, they’re not actually in melee, because Eolo’s in the air? Correct. So no, no opportunity. Okay. Correct.
Finnan: The spirit gets an opportunity to attack, though.
Eolo: My face…
DM: Wait, where is your fey spirit? No, it’s true.
Finnan: Here.
Finnan: Yeah, square.
DM: Okay.
Finnan: The next— yeah.
DM: I thought it was a taxi. Was it attacking the beast? It’s a Small creature. Okay, it’s Small—
Finnan: Takes up the square.
DM: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, okay, yes, yes. That’s not true.
Finnan: It’s one square.
DM: Okay.
Finnan: 5 feet.
DM: Yep.
Finnan: So that is… again, this won’t roll for me, but I’ll just use this stupid “Roll Dice” button. That is a natural 20.
Eolo: Oh!
DM: Let’s— wait, let’s see… okay.
Finnan: So that is going to do… 4d6 + 6 force damage.
DM: Wait, this is a spell?
Finnan: A summoned creature.
DM: Right, okay, okay. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Justas: So that’s gonna be 26 points of force damage.
DM: What? When you— when the creature— when… as the spirit reaches out to hit it, it’s, like, almost like the… the ice almost parts. And, like… the force of the blow just explodes this thing from the inside, almost like the creature was, like, opening itself up to the attack, in a way.
DM: Eolo, you’re up!
Finnan: I will telepathically ping Eolo and say, again, remind him: don’t shoot the snow. And also, like, fly us out of here if you can. Like, neither one of us—
Eolo: That’s me.
Finnan: —needs to be in melee with anything. Let’s back off.
Eolo: You mean right into the mouth of the beast? That’s what you mean, I think.
Finnan: No, no, Eolo. Eolo, Eolo. You know you can shoot things from far away, right?
Eolo: Should we fly directly above the beast, then?
DM: Perfect. The ceiling of this chamber is only about 18 feet or so. The beast is 10 feet—
Eolo: Me tall.
DM: So directly above the beast—
Finnan: Don’t go directly above that. How about, like… like—
Eolo: What’s my move?
Finnan: 20 feet. 1, 2—
DM: I doubt the… the… the… blackness has gone away from— the black bonds have gone away from you; it’s back.
Finnan: How about— and you only need to be 30 feet… you have to be 30 feet from the beast, right? So… that— there, that square is perfect.
Eolo: Which one?
Finnan: This one right here.
Eolo: Oh. Why is that perfect?
Finnan: Because that’s exactly 30 feet from the beast, so you can still shoot the beast.
Eolo: Okay, so you come with me, and I will shoot the beast as many times as possible. First shot is a 27 to hit.
DM: That hits.
Eolo: For 7 damage, and then I can use my Psionic Strike again… oops… for another 7 damage. Okay. Oh, let me… let me mark off the… where is my— oh yeah, my psionic energy dice. So that’s my first attack, and now the second one has advantage. That’s a 23 to hit.
DM: 23 hits.
Eolo: Oh, whoops, I didn’t roll the damage. It’s over here— that’s another 6. And then my third attack… is it 26 to hit?
Finnan: Probably not a bad… bad… time to Action Surge and make two more attacks, to be honest.
Eolo: That’s 9 damage. Oh, I can do that once per long rest, I think? Yeah.
Finnan: Per short rest.
Eolo: Oh, cool, cool. Once per short rest. So it says one additional action. But I get 2 shots for it?
DM: Yeah, two attacks, yeah, because your Attack action gets two attacks.
Eolo: Because I have two hands that deal.
Finnan: Exactly.
DM: So that’s—
Eolo: A 21 to hit.
DM: As that arrow goes flying towards it, you see from the living snow, like, a web comes up, and it deflects off of it. It’s like it, like, draws some sort— some sort of strength from the… from these creatures, and it deflects it.
Finnan: Wherever you are.
DM: It falls to the ground.
Eolo: Remember, you have advantage on these— oh, I only rolled once for that. Should I roll again, Mike?
DM: If you have advantage, you should roll twice.
Eolo: Yeah, yeah. 17, 15, right?
Finnan: Doesn’t help.
Eolo: Okay, and for my—
DM: 17th and final shot.
Eolo: That’s a 20, and I’ll roll again… you don’t get a 10 to 20.
DM: No, you don’t get advantage.
Finnan: You don’t get advantage.
Eolo: Oh, ’cause I—
Finnan: Missed. You… you broke—
Eolo: Oh, yeah.
DM: Yeah. 20 missed.
Finnan: That’s sad.
DM: Again, as the arrow flies towards it, you see this, like… web of snow almost flowing from the echoes, deflecting your arrow.
Eolo: Mmm.
DM: And… this one next to Jrain steps out of the emanation again, and looks at Jrain, and swings two claws. One of which hits for 10 points of cold damage. Wait, you don’t have any spells active, do you? Doubt. And then actually does nothing, because it already used that power.
DM: Yep, okay. Yeah, your turn. You’re on mute, Kate. We can’t hear you—you’re on mute.
Jrain: It did do the 10 points of damage, though.
DM: Oh, yes, yes, it did. The tentacles itself.
Jrain: …or some other thing.
DM: Or do another thing, because it can only do that every other turn.
Jrain: Well, awesome sauce. Alright. I… now, I’m going to cast Hunter’s Mark. I’m gonna stare at that big ol’ beast and… I don’t know, look menacing at it.
DM: Okay.
Jrain: And then, as a—
DM: Hunter’s Mark is a bonus action.
Jrain: —then as an action, I can cast, but it’s a spell?
DM: It’s a bonus action spell.
Jrain: Okay.
DM: So you can then attack, if you’d like.
Jrain: Yes, that’s what I was hoping.
DM: Eyeball.
Jrain: Draw my longbow and shoot at the big ol’ beast.
DM: Do you have any feat that prevents— makes you okay at attacking while you’re in melee?
Jrain: Normally—
DM: Disadvantage on… longbow— ranged attacks when you’re in— sure. Sharpshooter does. Okay, you have a feat. Yeah, okay, fine. Yeah, okay, so you do have a feat. I just wasn’t sure. Yep, okay. You can shoot at the beast.
Jrain: My feet and I are shooting. I’m so good at— with arrows, I shoot with my feet. It’s 18.
DM: As the arrow flies towards it again, you see this… this, like, snow swirling from these two snow creatures closest to it, and the arrow is knocked down.
Finnan: I will also just, like, telepathically suggest to people to get close to Justas, because then you’re gonna have to force them to get into the Spirit Guardians. You want to be as close to Justas as you can.
Jrain: I have an action and a bonus action and a move, so I can still move, right?
DM: And you get a second attack, too. Your first attack missed, but you have a second one.
Jrain: I’ll do my second attack. I mean, there’s no— yeah, there’s no way to avoid the opportunity attack of disengaging with the thing that’s next to me, so if I’m gonna move—
DM: Yeah.
Jrain: —nothing. Saving an action or a bonus action doesn’t prevent the creature’s opportunity to attack or anything like that, so… might as well just take my action. So I am shooting… that is a 22.
DM: Again, you see this snow around, swirling and knocking your arrow down, coming from— it’s, it’s clearly, like… coming off of these two living snow beasts near it. Like they’re defending it somehow.
Jrain: Alright.
DM: This one!
Jrain: I do try to do my moves.
DM: You’re gonna move? Okay.
Jrain: I’m gonna do whatever— I’m gonna incur whatever damage— I’m doing whatever Finnan tells me, nonsensical as it may be, so I move close to Justas.
DM: Swings at you as you move closer to it— closer to Justas, but—
Jrain: Of course it does. Oh, good.
DM: This one moves to here.
Finnan: You have to be in a square, so pick a square that you want to be.
DM: And then… swings a claw at… what’s your AC, Finnan? 13? So it flings a claw at Finnan.
Finnan: It has a 30— like, a 40-foot reach.
DM: Once— once per— yeah, yeah. If you see a bolt of ice— it’s only attacking you once, not twice, and it’s not howling at you.
Finnan: Where did it roll?
DM: It rolled a— to hit. It barely— it’s a very minimally glancing blow.
Finnan: I’m gonna… Cutting Words.
DM: That is… a d6 subtract.
Finnan:?
DM: Oh, it hit by 1, actually, so— so, minus 4 to its roll. No, miss. It hit by one— I mean, any roll— a roll of one would have made it miss. Bounces off. And it used its bonus action. It’s your turn.
DM: Okay.
Finnan: I… I’m going to use—
DM: Oh wait, you have a— alright, but never mind. It could’ve got here. Okay.
Finnan: I’m going to use… let’s see, does Command no longer require you to understand it? So, I am going to look at the— well… I think I’ll use Command at 2nd level to try and target this Living— Living Snow J and Living Snow— wait, there’s two Living Snow tokens.
DM: Yeah, I… yes. Let me… the names got a little confused.
Finnan: Whichever one is— that’s, like, the one associated with… with—
DM: That’s handled.
Finnan: Living Snow K and Living Snow—
DM: I was trying to abuse you guys’ first letters, but you have two E’s and two J’s.
Finnan: Living Snow— and Living Snow K. I will command them— I’m using a 2nd-level slot, so I can target two creatures. I will… oops, that’s Justas. I gotta modify my own character sheet. I will command them to flee. That’s DC 15 Wisdom saving throw.
DM: Okay. I didn’t even yell. You’re— okay, so… okay, J and K. It’s Wisdom, you said?
Finnan: DC 15 Wisdom saving throw.
DM: J makes the save. K fails the save.
Finnan: Okay, so on its turn, it has to spend its entire turn taking no actions to move as far—
DM: Away.
Finnan: —as possible.
DM: You doing anything else?
Finnan: Let’s see. I used— I think I only have one— I only have one Bardic left, because I used the Cutting Words, so I’m gonna save that, and I’m going to—
DM: It’s nothing? You’re not doing anything?
Finnan: With my— oh yeah, it’s gonna attack, but it takes its turn after mine. Bad. I am not gonna use my bonus action, and the spirit will attack.
DM: That is—
Finnan: 23 to hit the beast.
DM: 23 hits. You see it— it, like, tears… it tears through the, like, defense— like, the stream of snow coming from these… from these living snow. 8 damage.
Finnan: Nope, it’s plus an additional— 8 +… 3 + 3, so an additional 6, so it’s 14 damage. Okay. And then it’s going to target… the living snow! Is that— that’s not within 10 feet of it, is it? Okay, it can’t get that living snow. It’s gonna… it’ll target the living snow next to Justas and attempt to charm it. DC 15 Wisdom saving throw.
DM: I’m the one next to Justas, okay? What does charmed do? That just means it can’t attack you, right?
Finnan: It can’t attack me or the spirit.
DM: The one standing next to Ekko looks at the polar bear in front of it and swings two— what is the polar bear’s AC?
Finnan: 17.
DM: Swings two claws, both of which hit. You take… 12 points of— well, it’s 2 attacks— you take 12 points of cold damage, but you take half of that.
Finnan: So you have to make two concentration checks.
DM: Yes, for 6, and then it… actually, make 3. Then it howls at you in a very distracting way— make a third— make 3 concentration checks.
Finnan: So roll… roll 3d20. You have to roll a 3 or higher on all of them.
DM: Wow, one of them has a higher DC than you think.
Finnan: Yeah, okay. I think it’s a 3 or higher. What’s Ekko’s? 3 + 4, so 7, yeah.
DM: Oh, two of them you have to get— so tell me what you got for all three of them. And then it’s your turn. Kong, you’re on mute if you’re talking.
Ekko: Was it my turn?
DM: Did you make 3 concentration checks?
Ekko: Con saves, right?
DM: Yeah.
Ekko: Natural 20.
DM: Fine.
DM: That’s fine.
DM: That’s fine. That’s your turn.
