Jrain: So we hurry, because we're already headed in the right direction.
Finnan: Yeah.
Justas: If we go.
Jrain: Nice of him to get himself back over to the throne and out of our way, so we can leave.
DM: Just the bridge.
Finnan: There.
DM: Yeah, it's still there. It's narrow.
Finnan: Walk across. What's the giant ice wolf doing?
DM: It's… standing there.
Finnan: I'll walk up to it.
DM: Doesn't do anything.
Finnan: I'll, like, walk around one of its legs in a circle.
DM: Doesn't do anything.
Finnan: I'll walk up to the gash.
DM: Doesn't do anything.
Finnan: Should we?
Jrain: Yes? Oh. Can we send a quick message via any villager we can grab that we'll be back? And now isn't the time to, like, try to rush the portal. Or maybe it is, I don't know—what do we think? I think it might drive the little god guy a little nuts. This is… I think it's already—
Finnan: Deeply nuts.
Jrain: Well, yes, but—
DM: Are you telling anybody to rush, or are you just going through?
Jrain: I mean, what do we think?
DM: Something else.
Jrain: What?
DM: Or it's something else.
Jrain: Do we want them to stay here, or do we want them… because we did make this bargain that they could leave with us if we figure this out. Do we want them to be patient, or do we just not care, and we don't worry if there's a miscommunication and they rush to the door and things get complicated? Maybe it would be for the best if things got complicated. Are you disagreeing with the idea that we should tell them to be patient, or are you agreeing with the idea that we should tell them to be patient?
Finnan: Well, Finnan still doesn't want to… I mean… if I don't see one of the… the one person or Kalima, I know I don't… they're in their secret… I mean, if they're in their secret hideout, I don't want to reveal the existence of their secret hideout in case something goes wrong.
Jrain: No, I'm just meaning, like, grab any villager we see and say, “We're coming back.” I don't care if you care, but just let it be known that we're coming back. It doesn't have to be a member of the secret organization. Maybe we'll get lucky, and they will be a member of the secret organization. Who knows how it is.
Finnan: Finnan would not think to do that, but if Jrain wants to… tap Finnan or Justas on the shoulder and say, “Can you please tell them.”
DM: Jrain, also, you could… you know enough Old Zimkovan—you could just say it.
Jrain: I do now? Okay, great.
DM: Now, yeah. You've picked up enough words to say, “We'll be back.”
Jrain: All right, I'll use my three Old Zimkovan words for the day. Okay.
DM: We lost Ekko for, like, the cool last scene, but… well, next cliffhanger—well, next scene. But we'll just go ahead. So you run through?
Finnan: Wow. Walk through.
DM: Okay?
Finnan: Carefully.
DM: Who's going first?
Eolo: Me.
DM: Yeah?.
Finnan: Yeah, obviously.
Jrain: For the dog. Okay.
DM: You step through this.
Finnan: This—oh, wait. Before we step through, Justas, did you have a rope in your pack?
Justas: Yeah, sure do. Tie ourselves together, maybe?
Finnan: Tie one end of the rope to this side of the portal.
Justas: Yeah, fair enough. I'll do that.
Finnan: I don't know, in case we step out in midair.
DM: What are you tying it to on this side of the portal?
Justas: The leg of the wolf.
Finnan: Yeah, how big can the leg of the wolf be?
DM: But—
Finnan: It's a 40-foot wolf. It's probably… 2 feet, 3 feet—8 feet—2 feet across. Tie it around the leg of the wolf.
DM: You could tie it around the leg of the wolf.
Jrain: It's a great plan. I love this plan.
DM: Okay, you tie a rope around the leg of the wolf, and then what? Eolo jumps through.
Jrain: Yeah. Well, Eolo doesn't go through slowly, does he?
DM: Eric, what's y'all doing?
DM: If you're looking out at what looks like, basically, the… it looks like you're looking out into the chasm. You don't see a plateau. It looks like if you jumped, you'd just be in the chasm.
Finnan: That's fine. We've got the rope.
Eolo: Where I'm going, don't need ropes. And I jump with the full intention of sort of doing a little bit of a loop back, so I can—
DM: All right.
Eolo: Look back in.
DM: So you, like, you just, like, spread your wings and through the gate. Perfect. Okay. Yep. Eolo vanishes. Who's doing something next?
Justas: I'll tie the other end of the rope around my own waist, and then I will walk through.
Finnan: Yeah, I'm… I'm following Justas closely behind, with a similar—
Jrain: Okay. Like, hold each other—
Finnan: Great. So—
Jrain: Yeah, I try to hold on to the members of my party and the rope that they're using.
DM: But you're also going through? Yep. Like, the three of you just go through: one, two, three. What is Ekko doing?
Ekko: Yeah, I go through as well.
DM: You're just jumping through. I mean, so… so these guys, you can't fly, tied a rope to the leg of the ice wolf, and Eolo just jumped through. So, Eolo—so… you all come free.
Ekko: Fly through.
DM: You fly through. You are… you come out into the chasm. You're… wow. Into a chasm. It's obviously a chasm. So you're on a cliff face. So, like, the folks with the rope, who don't know how to fly—
Jrain: Like—
DM: —are holding onto the rope, and there's, you know, looking down. There's a long way down, right?
DM: What you see as you come out: you're— the chasm itself is, like, wide, right? Like, it's dozens of miles across. And so you can't… you can't really see the other side very well. There's a certain amount of haze in the air and some mists in the air that… but nothing like you were there before, right? It's like, it's… you can see the sky, right? It's… night—hold on, no, it's mid… it's like mid-afternoon, or early afternoon, right? Like, you can see a dim sun up in the sky.
DM: The chasm itself: you're in a section where, like, this side of the cliff is just sheer wall, right? Like, there's nothing… there's no… very little ledges, very little anything here. It's just, like, wall, right?
DM: But floating in front of you, maybe about… 30 feet from the edge—or 15 feet from the edge—there's, like, a rock that's just floating in the air, right? It's maybe about… it's 20 feet square, and it has, like, a carving on it, right? Like, there's, like… not, like— it has, like, these channels carved into it, right? Like, in a weird geometric pattern that you can see from above.
DM: And then you can see further below, like, maybe… a thousand feet down, or something like that, there's another odd rock carved with a geometric pattern. Like, this is… this is… but more… much larger and more complex pattern. And you can see these streams of light, like, running along this pattern—like these streams of, like, color-changing light kind of running along the cycles of this pattern, and… but they're… they're… they keep, like— you can see they're… they look almost… I mean, it's a thousand feet down, so you can't see it very well, but they look sort of weirdly jagged. Like… like… they're running in, like, a circular motion, for example, and there's, like, a crack, and, like, it's sort of the… the light… this pattern of light, like, flicks out or jumps. There's, like—looks like sparks jumping or something like that.
DM: And you can see a certain disturbance, like, at the center. There's some type of activity. There's, like, maybe a figure, a person—you can't quite tell. And there's a few other of these floating rocks. There's, like, one floating rock with, like, a… with, like, a little tower built on it.
DM: Like, imagine—like, the vibe you should be imagining is, like, Zelda… the second Legend of Zelda Sky World, right? Like, these platforms that are just floating in the air, with these, like, complex geometric shapes on them, right?
DM: And behind you, you can see a crack, right? It's still there. The crack you came through is still there. But you don't see the other five. It's not like there's four; there's only the one. But you—after, like, a few seconds—you see, like, just slashing through the air. Like, it appears and then disappears. Like, a gash opens in the sky, right? And, like, lightning comes out of it, and then it disappears.
DM: So what do you do?
Finnan: I'll yell at Eolo. “Can you push those rocks over to us? Do they move?”
Eolo: Oh, yeah, good idea. I'd give it a try.
DM: Yeah. I mean, this one—it's hard work, pushing it. It's clearly not, like… it's not, like, fully zero gravity, right? So a bigger rock you wouldn't be able to move, but this one you can.
Eolo: What… where are the channels on the top of it?
DM: So it's just… this just has— it has, like— as you get closer to it, I mean, it's only 30 feet away, you can see it pretty well. It's maybe… 18 feet by—it's about 20 feet by 20 feet. It's square-ish; it's not, like, perfectly square, but it's not… it's not a natural boulder, right? Like, it's a… it's some sort of piece of… it looks very like a piece of something.
DM: And there's just a geometric pattern carved on it, just maybe 4 inches, 5 inches deep. Nothing's flowing through it. The one a thousand feet below has light. It's ten times bigger and has light moving through the patterns, right? So there's, like, this multicolored light kind of moving along the pattern.
DM: And there's a distur—there's an area where it's, like, sparking, and you can see a disturbance. That's a thousand feet. This one is silent, right? Nothing's happening. There's just… things. Like, it's sort of a rectilinear geometric pattern carved into it.
Eolo: So… I shove it over to the—
DM: Yep.
Eolo: —that crack area.
DM: It moves… down and up with much more difficulty than left. Like, it wants to stay in its plane. You probably could push it down, but it's much harder than pushing it horizontally.
DM: So, you're all on the rock now. What do you do?
Eolo: Why don't I check out that other one down there? That looks interesting.
Finnan: Yeah, don't get too close by yourself, but I don't really see how the rest of us are gonna get down there.
Jrain: Well, Ekko could come with me. Perfect place to relax and wait for the night to fall so that we could expose this amulet to starlight—
Jrain: —go back through the crack.
DM: I mean—
Jrain: Go back through the crack.
DM: You… you probably—if Eolo and Ekko work together, you could probably push this rock down. It does move up and down; it's more—
Finnan: But then we'd have to push it up again.
DM: To get through.
Finnan: Kind of like Jrain's plan.
Eolo: Just hang out.
Finnan: Like, it's mid-afternoon. Just wait six hours. I mean, if you want to do a little flyby of the rock down there—
Jrain: Have it. Feel free to… relax.
Finnan: Investigate. But be careful. Don't get in trouble that we can't save you from.
Eolo: Well, you know, there's only a certain number of times that you live.
Finnan: Which is—
Eolo: Say, one.
DM: Is anybody gonna fly down to be… Sparky Rock?
Finnan: Oh, wait a minute. Hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on. Let's be a little bit more careful. I'll cast Clairvoyance.
DM: Okay.
Finnan: Just targeting, like, 10 feet above the ground above the sparky rock.
DM: So it's… I mean, the rock is… is sizable, right? So it's—
Finnan: Like where the disturbance is. Okay.
DM: Disturbance is a person who is… lying—like, sitting on the ground, like, in a… You're the only one who can see through Clairvoyance, right?
Finnan: Yeah, but I'll narrate what I see. There's a… there's a person, maybe.
DM: Human, right, with long black hair and, like, green eyes—hazel green eyes—and wearing what, at this point, like, what used to be, you know, nice robes, but they look tattered at this point. And they're… they're sitting, like, cross-legged, like, where you can see there's, like, a blackened area of the stone.
DM: And this person is, like, sitting, and, like, their arms are, like, holding on to two pieces of the light—like, to two sections where the light is flowing. And you can actually see, like, the light is, like, moving, right? Like, it's not stable. They're, like, holding two sections, and, like, every once in a while, like, it'll flow through their body, and, like, it'll spark.
DM: And, like, you can see them, like, grimacing and, like, bearing down their teeth, like, when the light flows through them. Like… like… And you notice when that happens, like, you see the light flow through the person, and at the same moment, like, you see in the distance a… a sheet of iron, maybe, 100 feet wide, just appear in the sky and start falling. And then, like, you actually see, like, the person, like, tightens the grip, almost, on the light, and, like, is, like, holding on to something. Looks like they're holding on to something.
Eolo: The piece of iron falling towards them?
DM: It's, like, far away. Like, a crack opened in the sky and this weird metal—you don't know if it's iron, really. It's just black metal—started falling. And then the crack vanished.
Eolo: Is it gonna hit the platform, or just—
DM: It's gonna fall forever, as far as you can tell. As far as you know, there's no bottom in the chasm, so it'll just keep going. It doesn't… it's not near the—it's not near the platform.
Finnan: This is— and I describe this person in detail. This is not anybody—anybody—
DM: No, no, no. Ekko and Jrain recognize him as Eidrikas—whatever your mentor's name is.
Ekko: Whoa.
Eolo: Good. Huh.
Ekko: Ekko reacts, and, like—what's their… what's their vibe?
DM: Their vibe is… I mean, they're, like… it looks like every time the light passes through their body, they're, like, in a lot of pain and struggling with something, but they seem to be intentional that they're here.
Jrain: We found the characters holding the world together again.
Ekko: Yeah, Jesus. Ekko—Ekko will—does he see Ekko?
DM: He doesn't… he's… he's sitting cross-legged. Like… he's a thousand feet below you, right? This is all through Clairvoyance. And he's sitting, like, cross-legged, like, in this, like, pose of, like, deep meditation, right?
Ekko: Yeah. Easy.
DM: He opens his eyes occasionally, but it's not like he's looking up and looking around, right?
Ekko: Right.
DM: He seems intensely focused on something.
Ekko: Yeah. Saving the world.
Finnan: As I describe— as I give this description and I see Ekko, like, react—I'll just say, “Hey, you know, fly down. See what if he needs help.”
Ekko: Yeah. Yeah, I'll do that. Ekko—Ekko will rush, rush, rush over.
DM: Okay. I mean, when you—so you go… let's see… We'll do the scene with him, but then let's stop, because it's almost midnight.
Ekko: Fair.
DM: You land near him, and he sort of… he looks up at you in, like, joy, right? Like… “Ekko. How did you come to be here?”
Ekko: It's a long story.
DM: “The… the chasm provides.”
Ekko: Indeed it does. How are you, Master? Are you… are you… are you okay? Can… can I… I'm here with companions. How can… how can I—how can we help?
DM: This… He sort of looks down at the… at this structure that he's standing on. “This magic… it's broken. The… the planar energy of the chasm is—” And he, like, stops for a minute as, like, this light flows through him again, and you, like… you see, like, he grimaces in pain and, like, takes a minute and, like, focuses in some way, right?
DM: And, like… this… this energy flows through him, but it's, like, it's not… he's, like, not a perfect circuit, right? And, like, sparks fly, right? And you see, at the same time this is happening—like, as it's trying to… as it's going through him—you see, like, another, like, gate open flash. Like, some brief flash in the distance of, like, a bolt of lightning going up.
DM: “It's… that… this… this place… it's… it's one of the… the things that keeps the chasm from collapsing into chaos. It's… it's broken. I… I am doing what I can to… keep it from getting worse, but… if you could… if you could find any sort of—there's, like, all these stones. It's like a complex structure, right, that's built here.”
DM: “But… the story,” he says. “The story… I will tell you how I came to be here. We… several of us were investigating this—this danger. And we came to this place. And we… we found upon it the remains of a battle.”
DM: “We found,” and he describes that they found, some stoneborn and orcs had fought here. “And there was, like, several dead… like, they discovered, like, several dead bodies and, like… a small encampment,” he says, “of the surviving orcs.”
DM: “They… they took in anger, and, you know, they… they killed kenku and… and… fled with one of the— you know—with a piece of this… of this… of this mechanism. And I could not chase them, for I was holding it together.”
DM: “So, I mean, basically… I'm tired. I'm not scared. But they… they surprised the survivors of a battle, right? And… who fled. Right? A group of orcs who basically fled… Like, in Hill Point, there's, like, beneath this, there's, like, a complex that you can almost jump down, right? Like, from here to underneath a smaller section.”
DM: “Again, like, think of Zelda-like Skyland, right? Like, there's a… there's another platform, maybe 10 feet below, and it leads into a more complex—” He points down. “They fled down that way when we surprised them. If you could— and I could not… I cannot give chase, for I… it is—” And again: “I am doing what I can to prevent it from getting worse. But we cannot repair it without retrieving the piece.”
DM: “If you have companions who can chase them… I can only hold this together for so long.”
Ekko: Okay. What else can you tell us about how to get this piece?
DM: I mean, there's basically a group of orcs who—he doesn't know much about them. They surprised a group of… they surprised a group of orcs who were basically camped out and kind of smashing this mechanism up for fun, right?
Ekko: Yeah.
DM: The orcs had… he has no idea how the orcs got here, right? There were orc raids in the summer—maybe they've been here since then, right? And when him and the kenku came, they surprised them. They fought. They killed the kenku warrior guy.
Ekko: The two of them killed a bunch of orcs. You can see there's some dead bodies around, but they also—
DM: The kenku warrior died in the battle, right? The orcs fled with a… with a… with a piece. You could describe a piece as, like, a large stone block, basically. You can see there's, like, a piece—a place where the stone is broken, right?
DM: There's a large stone, and you're like—this stone that's carved here is all, like, different. I mean, it's like—it's not just, like, granite. Like, there's different pieces of stone. It's like this complex stone mechanism, right? Yeah, yeah.
DM: And he says, “If we could… if we could find this piece that goes here,” right? “You could probably repair.”
Ekko: Yeah.
DM: I mean, they… they can't fly. So they must be sort of—he points down—there's, like, again, like, a platform beneath that then opens up. There's, like, a series of other platforms beneath that you could navigate, right? They must be down there.
Ekko: Yeah.
DM: Go find them.
Ekko: Okay. I can go. We'll do our best. Please hold on. Ekko will fly back to the companions and tell them about the conversation.
Eolo: This is the main quest, right?
Ekko: I think this is a bank quest.
DM: Wow.
Finnan: [unintelligible].
DM: There's two main ques— I mean, yes.
Finnan: And then we'll—well, Finnan is concerned that once the mechanism is repaired, the portals will close.
Finnan: Yeah….
Finnan: How desperate did he seem?
Ekko: How long did he say he could hold on?
DM: I mean… a bit longer. Like, maybe days, but not weeks.
Ekko: Okay, yeah. Days, not weeks.
Jrain: I mean, that should be enough.
Finnan: We have no idea what day it is. We don't have any idea how long we were in the—
Finnan: —in the—
DM: I mean, you could ask… you could ask… you could ask.
Finnan: I mean, does he know what day it is? Maybe.
DM: Yeah, he's… the sun sets and rises here. He's been counting sunrises, yeah. He knows—
Finnan: All right.
DM: He knows how many days he's been here. He can tell you that he… he can tell you—hold on, let me look at my notes. He can tell you that—
DM: He can tell you that it was… 13 days since… I mean, he knows that Jrain’s bird was following them around, right? He can tell you that it was 13 days since Jrain’s bird died.
Jrain: Okay.
Justas: Yeah, unfortunately, I have to… I have to leave it there and go attend to kids' stuff. Not… not that this has to stop, but… we'll see you next time.
DM: Yes. Yep. See you next time. Thirteen days ago—that was… so that was, as far as you know, nine days ago. Your bird died nine days before you went into the labyrinth.
Jrain: Okay, so we lost four days.
DM: Wow, you spent—
Finnan: Well, over the—
Jrain: I've spent four days of this universe's time doing all the stuff that we've done so far.
DM: Yeah.
Jrain: Okay.
Finnan: I mean, so… so—
Jrain: Finnan is gonna propose that we—
Finnan: That we wait for nightfall. As soon as the stars come out, we take out the necklace, go back through, spend as little time as possible in the other— Well, then we have to fight orcs at night, so maybe it's—
DM: It would help me if you would decide which direction you're going tonight, so that I can figure out the right—
Finnan: Yeah, yeah, that's what I'm trying to do. Maybe we fight orcs and just tell Eidrikas not to repair the thing until we've… I mean, we can get the part and not repair the mechanism.
DM: Yes. That is true.
Finnan: That way you can fight orcs in the daylight. But…
Finnan: Yeah, that's fine.
Jrain: Let's go chase down some orcs. They have our rock.
DM: Okay. So you will go chase… you'll go into the dungeon and chase the orcs next time, and whatever other mysterious things live in the dungeon in the depths of the chasm. Well, the sky dungeon in the depths of the chasm.
Jrain: You just wanted to say the phrase, “the sky dungeon in the depths of the chasm.”
DM: I did.
Eolo: It is. It is a good phrase.
DM: All right. Thanks, everybody.
Finnan: Okay.
DM: See you all in a week!
Finnan: G'day.
DM: G'day.
