DM: To bring change—and you’ve been directed by this family to—so I assume you just head out? Are you doing… I mean, it seems, when you open the door and look out, the ice bridge is gone. It’s quiet. Nobody’s really moving. There’s a few people, like, harvesting fish. I mean, it’s… you could almost pass unnoticed. Every time you— it just seems… there’s still the guard, like, you still—
Ekko: You’ll see the ice?
DM: —wolf, the size of a, you know, 40 feet tall, standing in front of the crack in the wall that’s mirroring the chasm. You still see it. But, you know, there’s people around, but not very many. Like, kenku, again, are hard to… If you guys transformed into human form, and you, like, threw cloaks on and stuff, you might be able to sort of just appear as some people passing through, and nobody would pay that much attention to you. It’s not like people are—there’s no soldiers about. Whatever the soldier—what was happening overnight—is gone.
DM: You do see, as you go out the door—though I don’t know how you’re… what are you actually doing when you leave—you do see a mark, like a chalk mark on the door as you leave. There seems to be chalk marks on all the doors. Like, with a certain… a stylized sigil, kind of like a— it’s not a sign, it’s not… it’s kind of like a stylized palace, ice palace almost—like a little squiggly thing drawn on the door. You see them drawn on many of the… all of the doors?
DM: But… Eolo? Ekko? What are you guys doing?
DM: Question: I mean, as kenku, you can transform. That’s, like, every day, right? That resets at the beginning of the day, so you get three hours as a human if you want. Or you could just spread your wings and fly.
Ekko: Is there a door for you to run through, Eolo?
DM: Yeah, there’s a door. You could run through the door now. You can just go knock on the ice palace.
Eolo: I feel a little bit out of the loop. I think I might have missed part of last session, too.
DM: Super short version is: you are trapped in some—there are these five magical cracks in the wall that Ekko investigated that seem like they’re showing various strange things on the other side. But one of the five seems to be showing the chasm when you look through it. You’re in some village on the edge of a—like, in the chas— it looks like a village in the chasm. There’s a giant rock in the middle of the chasm with an ice palace floating on it.
DM: You’re in some—there’s fog above you and clouds all around. There’s clearly some magical boundary to this place, and Finnan’s magic said that that’s the edge of this realm, whatever it is. So you’re in some sort of demiplane, almost certainly. There—
Eolo: So we went… we went through the crack into this demi—
DM: No, you didn’t go through the crack. You emerged from the labyrinth into the demiplane. When you killed the beast and escaped the labyrinth, you were in the demiplane.
Jrain: Labyrinth was in the demiplane, and completing the labyrinth put us in a different part of the demiplane.
DM: Most likely, yes, yes. Basically, when the adventure started—when you fell into the chasm in the very beginning—you fell into the demiplane instead of the chasm.
Ekko: I feel—
DM: The labyrinth was a <demi point>[demipoint|ASR; unclear term].
Ekko: This isn’t what Ekko would do, but I feel like Eolo would really want to fly through one of those five portals that are just, like, doorways into another dimension, but I’m not trying to put any, you know—
Eolo: That seems correct, yes.
DM: Four of them—so, to remind you with the portals: one of them is, like, a violent lightning storm. One of them is, like… ice and snow, and jagged icicles shooting through the air and shattering. It looks like sort of infinite winter. One of them is just, like, weird flashing lights, cycling through different colors—colors you can’t even name or describe. One of them is, like, all sharp pieces of metal, and strange twisted metal formations that look like they’re breathing and moving through other metal. It’s hard to even see where—like, it looks like you’d sort of just run into iron or something.
DM: And then one of them just looks like the chasm. But the one that looks like the chasm: there’s a 40-foot-tall statue—an ice wolf—that looks exactly like the statues that came alive and tried to kill you in the first session. Except it’s 40 feet tall. And it’s pretty firmly planted in front of that crack that looks like the chasm. So if you tried to fly through that, you would almost certainly be stopped by a 40-foot-tall ice wolf, unless you had some way of distracting the wolf, and/or teleporting, and/or being invisible.
Eolo: Hmm…
DM: The other ones all don’t look that safe.
Justas: So there’s an exit there, back to the chasm again. But even if we could get ourselves out, Justas says, we can’t leave these people behind. We need some way to get rid of that wolf one way or another and lead everyone to freedom.
Eolo: Hmm…
Justas: Let’s talk to the troublemakers.
Finnan: Yeah.
Eolo: Yep.
DM: So, the kenku—what are you guys doing? So you leave the hut, and… are you just boldly striding across the plateau? Are you, like, skulking? Are you hiding? Are you disguising yourself?
Ekko: Into a cat.
DM: Okay. Cats are good.
Ekko: I just stay—when I’m out and about, I just stay as a cat.
DM: How about the rest of you?
Justas: Yeah, Justas sort of looks himself up and down. Like, six feet tall, in giant armor and a shield and an enormous axe, and a backpack stuffed with the—
DM: The severed head of a beast we killed, and—
Justas: I’ll look around to the rest of you, like… I’ll take suggestions. I don’t know how to not be me here.
Eolo: Hmm.
Finnan: It’s—
DM: And it also just kind of shakes his head. I mean—
Finnan: Let’s just go. My <clue.>[call.|ASR]
Jrain: My cloak is made of feathers. Like, I don’t know, like—
Finnan: Finnan’s feeling is, like, after talking to Nura and her husband: these people… these people need to be aware that the world can change. Let’s be the change we want to see in the world.
Jrain: We can protect them if somebody comes after them to make them face consequences for harboring us, so let’s just—
Justas: Good.
Jrain: We can’t—
Finnan: Finnan’s not so confident in that, but—
Jrain: There’s only—I mean—well, I mean—
Finnan: The people have to rise up and free themselves. We’re fomenting a rebellion here, not so much—
Jrain: Let’s get the nice people in trouble so that they’ll have to suffer. Sounds good.
Finnan: Oh, they’re already suffering.
DM: So you have to cross—so, the place they pointed you to is… the village is divided into two sections. There’s a bigger section on this side of the river. So there’s a big waterfall that comes down out from the mists, splashes down to the ground, and then forms a pool where that’s teeming with fish, right? And then it goes down off the edge of the chasm and just… vanishes, right?
DM: So you can cross it—I mean, it’s shallow, right? On both sides of the pool, it’s relatively shallow, and you can just kind of walk across it. It’s not even that—it’s surprisingly not that cold. There’s a larger village that you’re part of right now, on the side of the river you’re on. Zahara—you’re pointed to, like, three huts on the other—on the far side—close to the bridge to the <Cattle Island>[Cattle Island|Unclear place-name; ASR uncertain], and… so you can just splash across.
DM: The fish look really tasty to Ekko the cat. Like big, fat salmon.
Ekko: Ekko the cat dives in and gets one of the salmon.
DM: That’s delicious.
Ekko: Ekko the cat stays there and eats more salmon until he is satiated.
DM: Yeah, I mean, they’re—you know—if you’re just a house cat, you don’t need to eat that many salmon to be satiated, but—
Finnan: Don’t change into your polar bear form, then.
DM: Yeah.
Jrain: <of one salmon.>[Off one salmon.|ASR; unclear phrasing]
DM: Yeah, I mean, it’s definitely Fat Bear Week kind of salmon here. Like, it’s teeming with salmon. Where they come from, you don’t know, because—
Ekko: Magic. Seeing that makes sense.
DM: Probably.
Ekko: Food in the circular island.
DM: Yep. Nobody— I mean, a few people stare at you as you walk across. Like, one guy who’s scooping salmon with a net is just staring at this cat who’s eating salmon. Doesn’t actually look like he’s ever seen a cat. Maybe not.
Jrain: Yeah, so you can—
DM: Conspicuous. And he’s staring at the rest of you. He just drops his net and is just, like… staring at you. And then, like, grabs his <neck before it walks away>[net and walks away|ASR], but is still staring at you until you leave. But doesn’t say anything.
DM: And you get to this hut. I mean, the door’s closed.
Justas: Justas knocks politely.
DM: An older man with sort of balding hair. A little bit heavyset, but not like—maybe in his 50s or 60s, you would guess—opens the door and kind of looks you up and down, and sort of steps back for a minute. And then—
DM: Justas, interpreting that as an invitation, comes in.
Justas: So—
DM: Yeah—no, no, no. He motions with his hand for a minute.
DM: You must be those who came with Kalima. <Deep.>[Indeed.|ASR]
DM: He kind of looks around. Wha—what can I do for you?
Justas: Well, I mean, not to put too fine a point on it: our hope was to break the grip of the fey impostor who’s kidnapped you—destroy the wolf who keeps you trapped here—and lead everyone to freedom. How does that line up with your priorities?
DM: He kinda looks a little bit—he actually just bursts out laughing. Impossible dreamers.
Justas: Ha ha ha ha.
DM: Escandar, he introduced himself. Escandar.
DM: It’s—how did you get here? That’s a story I would like to hear.
Ekko: Where is here? That’s another question.
Finnan: Meh. That’s a story we would also like to hear. <fit in.>[Finnan.|ASR speaker/name slip]
Ekko: What’s that?
DM: Here. Well… the elders say, he says, here is <zifa’s realm?>[Saifa’s realm?|ASR; “Saifa”/West Wind referenced later]. We’ve been brought here for sins of the ancient past, and… we are stuck forever.
Ekko: <Hoosins?>[Whose sins?|ASR]
Jrain: Nope, nope.
DM: Our ancestors, I guess—the story says—although nobody’s ever been able to tell us what those sins are, exactly. It is just… he kind of looks at it as just: some people are born unlucky. The elders say it is us—all of us—who are perpetually born unlucky in this place, and we will never… change does not come here.
Finnan: When did the cracks in the wall appear?
DM: Wow. That’s when we started to think the elders might be wrong. <Zam… Man, I… let’s see,>[Uh… man, I… let’s see—|ASR] about four months—no, about six months ago.
Ekko: Anything happen six months ago that might have precipitated that happening?
DM: Other than—
Ekko: —that might have precipitated that happening?
Jrain: Well, it lines up with the mess going on with our own chasm. And there’s crazy, weird storms and bits of metal flying around, and funny blights. In our chasm, too, right?
DM: True.
Jrain: An interplanar interface leak.
Justas: Have you ever seen… <Zipfest>[Saifa|ASR] or anyone in the palace?
DM: The—the—Malquin—<marl Quinn. Malcwin the Vakar>[Malquin the Frostbinder|ASR; title unclear]—Saifa’s lieutenant, supposedly—emerges when the sun sets. And… damn… some of us… worship him, as if he was <Xypher>[Saifa|ASR; term confusion].
Finnan: To interrupt: nobody’s ever worshipped Saifa.
DM: He looks at you oddly.
Finnan: Where we come from—and where your people come from—Saifa is not a creature that is worshipped. Saifa is warded off. One doesn’t worship the West Wind. The West Wind brings cold, and frost, and starvation.
DM: Right? I’ll look over at Justas.
Justas: Justas nods.
DM: The West Wind only carries bad news.
DM: He looks puzzled.
Justas: What does this Mal—Malquin—look like? What’s their form or appearance, or—
DM: He describes a tall—maybe six-and-a-half, seven-foot-tall human. But with pale blue—humanoid, right? But with pale, icy skin, you know? These, like—here, you know what? Let me just—otherwise—let me show you a picture.
Ekko: Picture.
DM: Can you see that?
Finnan: Yep.
Justas: Yeah.
Ekko: <S.>[Uh-huh.|ASR]
DM: Bad.
Ekko: Thing.
Justas: Huh.
DM: But, like, human. I mean, human: arms, legs, six and a half feet tall.
Finnan: So… are Gustavo ever depicted in humanoid form?
DM: Not really. I mean, I think occasionally they’re semi-personified. Like, some of the more powerful ones would be—like, <Belsa>[Belsa|Unclear proper noun; ASR uncertain], the West Wind—like the… sorry, the Bringer of Spring, you know, the warm wind from the Green Sea—might be feminine in personification, right? And might occasionally be, like, a wind with arms and a little bit of a face kind of thing, right? Or, like… <Braubel>[Braubel|Unclear proper noun; ASR uncertain], the Glacier King, you might imagine as—
Finnan: So, sort of—
DM: —a glacier, like a little bit of an anthropomorphic glacier, but not humanoid, right? Like, you wouldn’t normally imagine a Gustavo as having arms and legs and a face and five fingers and five toes and—
Justas: Yeah.
Finnan: So I’ll take out my book of my collected tales and songs of <Zimkova>[Zimkova|Unclear proper noun; ASR uncertain]. And I will begin, sort of, showing this to… I forget—Escandar.
DM: That is kind of—
Finnan: —a scandal. These are Gustavo. That is not a <Gestapo>[Gustavo|ASR]. I’ll read him tales—like some of the stories.
DM: He sort of stops you as you’re talking, and—
DM: And what of it? I’m just saying, don’t—
Finnan: Don’t say you’re living in the prison of the West Wind when you’re not. Truth matters.
DM: So… where are we, then?
Finnan: I have no idea.
DM: Maybe you should go find out.
Jrain: We’re living in the prison of Malquin—whoever they are—right?
Justas: Tell us about Malquin’s guards, or soldiers—put over there. How many? How armed?
DM: Some… some fight him compelling, either through fear or true belief. Some believe that if you serve him, it keeps your family safe from the sacrifice. Don’t know if that’s really true.
DM: He maybe has 15 or 20 under arms. It doesn’t matter much. Nobody would dare challenge him. There’s not much to fight over here, even the—
Jrain: That—
DM: —to us. I… he sort of looks around him. Who would—what—what would we do? Nobody… there’s nowhere to go. Until now, he sort of thinks about it.
DM: There were several attempts to escape through those cracks. One—a few—he mentions two names: one who went through the lightning crack, and one who went through the changing-colors crack. We heard the screams—we heard their screams in the lightning as they were electrocuted and died. The other one—it looked as if their body had dissolved. I do not know what happened to them.
DM: Those who’ve tried to escape through the one that looks safe were stopped by Malquin. He seems quite keen that nobody go through it. After the first attempt—which was stopped by his guards—that thing—the 40-foot-tall ice wolf—appeared. And nobody’s dared go too close. It wakens if you come too close to it.
Justas: How do we know it’s— I’ll say to the rest of the party—how do we know that thing’s really real? I mean… I’ve seen convincing illusions in my day. I don’t know. I’m suspicious of it.
Finnan: I was just wondering if it would fall for a convincing illusion.
DM: Escandar can tell you that—two times—basically, there were three attempts to go through that crack. The first one: the person was stopped by a group of human guards, right? But almost made it through.
DM: The second time after that, Malquin appeared and was like—gave them a whole speech, gave the whole village a whole speech about how death lies that way, and it’ll—your soul will be destroyed if you go through that—which Escandar doesn’t believe. He thinks there’s some safety there.
DM: The other ones look really scary and dangerous to him. Endless Winter looks like more of this, and the metal one—it doesn’t even look like you could go through. And people died going into the other two. But the ice wolf appeared after that, supposedly for our protection, right? To keep anybody—
Finnan: And… what happened to Kalima?
DM: Kalima was… was a sacrifice.
Finnan: No—I’m asking what happened to her. I’m asking.
DM: Oh. Her. What happened there?
Finnan: Yeah.
DM: Oh, my—
Jrain: Last night.
DM: Zahara hid her down in the—down in the mines, the holes in the cliff, down… Nobody’s supposed to come back. It’s not clear what Malquin would do to her, or what she means, or how she came back, or… we don’t know.
Finnan: I’m gonna telepathically say to Justas: show him the hat.
Justas: Yeah, I… I don’t think this guy needs convincing. I think we should head on. Let’s either go chat with the wolf, or with the fey impostor.
DM: He says if Zahara—our leader—they tend to… there’s more privacy and safety on the <jungle>[orchards/woods|ASR; later described as fruit trees]. He points to the lush, thickly dense—when Zahara needs time to think and space away from this.
DM: He tells you that you can find it if you go to the <Washfood Islands>[Watchwood Islands|ASR; place-name uncertain], right? Which is, like, a dense, thickly overgrown forest of fruit trees and crops and all kinds. Find the tallest apple tree, and there’s a thicket next to it where Zahara built a little hideaway. Don’t be obvious about it, though. We don’t think anybody knows about that.
Justas: How many of you are there who feel this way?
DM: There’s about seven. There was more, but there’s seven we trust. We are— I mean, he says—we would like to go through. We think that’s the way out. Wherever this place is, we don’t believe that leaving here will cause our souls to be eaten.
DM: But I would say maybe another 20 or 30 don’t think we’re wrong. But many are convinced by the elders who do believe our souls will be eaten if we leave.
DM: So he has basically, like, seven inner circle, and another 20 or 30 who are with them in spirit but aren’t actively trying to do anything interesting, right? He’s like: if you have any ideas on how to get rid of that thing, we’ve been despairing. Yeah, I’m worried it’ll go away.
Jrain: If we dispatch it, but that act makes the exit unstable—do you have a plan for convincing or mobilizing beyond your… have you ever thought of trying to rescue everyone?
DM: Nope. Why would we do that? I mean, I don’t mean it—if we can get out, that’s enough for me.
DM: He seems sort of… I mean, his attitude is a bit—
Jrain: <AI. What’d you? I said white guy.>[Yeah… he’s kind of a “I got mine” guy.|ASR; unclear exchange]
DM: A little bit, yeah. But no, it’s also a little bit just cynical. And a little bit bitter. Like, you know… if these people don’t want to believe what’s good for them, then… it’s not my job to save them. I mean, you get the sense maybe one of the people who died is like his closest—like, he’s definitely bitter about something, right?
Ekko: So just to be, like—like, nobody’s asked us to save anybody or do anything, right?
Finnan: No.
Ekko: It’s like, everything’s just kinda, you know… nobody’s, like, obviously suffering.
DM: They seem to have some really tasty salmon.
Ekko: That’s a lot. I mean, I’m just saying from, like, the kenku perspective: what are we doing? Are we—you know—there looks like there’s, like, a little portal right there, and if we fly through it, we get through to the chasm on the other side. Like, what’s the—
DM: The 40-foot ice wolf is much larger than the size of the crack. So flying through it would pose certain challenges, even— it’s not like you could just fly above the 40-foot ice wolf. The crack is only 20 feet tall. So you’d have to have a plan for distracting or getting past the wolf. It’s not like you could just fly away.
Ekko: Sure. I’m just saying it’s like—what, like—what are you, like, you know, what’s the—
DM: Escandar has clearly, basically, in your conversation, certainly implied that the seven of them—this inner circle—are trying to get out.
Ekko: Okay, okay, okay. So there is a group that is trying to—okay.
DM: But it’s the seven of them, really. And there’s maybe another 20 people who would—who sort of—aren’t actively trying to do anything. There’s the seven people who are like: yeah, if you guys solve the problem, we’ll come along, but we’re not gonna risk our lives or do anything interesting, right? It’s a small group that actively believes that there’s something better on the other side, would be a better way of putting it. But—so he’s basically said, look, if you have a way out—he sort of asked: do you have an idea? But—
Justas: Yeah, like—just to hoist the axe—he’s sort of offended by the… like, it’s kind of vaguely sacrilegious that someone would pretend to impersonate one of his gods in order to keep people here, and… no, so let’s say: of course there’s a way out. Either we’ll cut our way through the wolf, or we’ll cut our way through the false god. It’s just a question of the order we want to take it in.
DM: He walks at you, sort of laughs a little bit again. Maybe your axe is sharper than I think it is.
Justas: I haven’t found something yet that can—
Finnan: I’ll just telepathically bounce to Justas, because I don’t want to scare everybody, but… in my reading of the fey, if this truly is a fey impostor, they are way beyond anything we can do, Justas—although I applaud the sentiment. A fey lord is not an enemy that can be defeated with an axe.
Justas: What about a nice wolf?
Finnan: That may be. Although—
Justas: Maybe we start with the wolf, then.
Ekko: Would the wolf end?
Justas: And then work our way up to the fey lord from there. We can figure out the next part when we get there.
Ekko: So you mean, like, start with the wolf as in try to kill the wolf, or—
Justas: Yeah.
Finnan: Hell yeah. Okay.
Justas: I mean, don’t get me wrong—it’s a big wolf. It’s the biggest wolf I’ve ever seen. But I… I’ve killed wolves before.
Jrain: So… some of these people want to get out. We want to change this unjust and vaguely sacrilegious situation just on principle. But also, we kind of want to address the giant supernatural disruption to our own homeworld, and when we get back, maybe have it be a better place because we were gone. So if this—<failure>[fey realm|ASR] can give us any insight into the set of cracks, maybe they’re worth talking to in a non-confrontational way for that reason.
Jrain: Because it would be really nice if our chasm wasn’t raining thunderstorms that sent you through <interventional>[interplanar|ASR] metal storms.
Finnan: Yeah, I mean, I mean—
Ekko: Yeah.
Finnan: But it kinda does that sometimes, doesn’t it? How do we know that’s related?
Jrain: It’s gotten a lot worse lately. That’s why I’ve been worried about… that’s why I’ve been sending out parties that have put themselves in peril. We still don’t know what happened to the… people whose names I can’t remember. In the last about—
DM: Well, in the last about—wait, what did I say? I said it was eight months? It’s been about… in the last two months or so, it’s been much worse in Talgar, right? Like, there’s always weird stuff, but it was, like, late fall—so, like, about two months ago—when all the really weird omens started happening. Like, you know, the rainbow of strange colors that shattered into glass and fell over, and the lightning storm. Like, there’s just been a bunch of these odd omens that started happening about… about two months ago.
Jrain: So, like, <Parenchis and Ajakis>[Parenko and Drakeus|ASR; names clarified later] are trying to solve this problem, and—
DM: Yes.
Jrain: Yeah. We can’t quite rescue them if we can’t rescue ourselves, but also, if we don’t use this opportunity to learn more about what’s going on—
DM: Right. Like, a living sheet of ice that drifted down the <teft>[rift|ASR] like a predator. A rainbow of glass that had a hundred different—thousand different—colors, right? Like, a thunderstorm with crazy lightning, and—
Finnan: We are—those names you mentioned, Jrain?
Finnan: Go ahead.
DM: I was gonna say—and now I’m trying to find their names. Wait—oh, here we go. I got it.
DM: Drakeus was Ekko’s mentor. Drakeus was Ekko’s mentor—part of the <Vekai>[Vekai|Unclear faction name; ASR uncertain]—who went into… and… Parenko was one of the warriors of <Cameco>[Cameco|Unclear faction/place; ASR uncertain]. Who went about—what—three weeks ago into the chasm to investigate, to try and see why it has gotten so weird. And they never returned.
DM: And—Jrain was recruited partly to help carry messages to them, right? With her bird and stuff like that. And about a week ago, a cloud of superheated steam killed your bird and obscured what was going on, and fogs and mists started rising, and nobody knew what Drakeus and <Perink, orinkitik>[Parenko|ASR] were doing after that.
DM: But, like, Ekko—this is your mentor, Drakeus, right? Like, he’s, like, a druid of the chasm of the <Vehovah Kai>[Vekai|ASR; name drift]. He’s worried that something wrong is happening down there. And that’s actually why you came: to go after him originally.
Ekko: Right, right, right. So… okay. Well… I mean, I definitely wanna help my mentor.
Jrain: That’s a spirit.
