DM: South. You guys are— I mean, Escandar’s happy to keep talking to you. You could go investigate the wolf, you could go find… Zahara, although… it’s not clear they know that much more than— they’re more the active wing, and might have a better sense of specific plans, or things, or help plan plans. But you could also go knock— I mean…
DM: Escandar does not think the lord would, like, kill you. Like, he doesn’t kill people. He doesn’t… he’s not, like, violent. But who knows? I mean, he might throw you back in the labyrinth, I guess. But… damn. You could go knock on the door and talk to Malquin. Or, as you know— I mean, you know he has another name, right? Which I made up and now can never pronounce, but—
DM: So what are you doing?
Jrain: Go on.
Finnan: Anybody have opinions?
Ekko: Open.
Ekko: Excellent.
DM: Perfect. I’m too tired for this.
Justas: Justas has, like, a strong bias for direct action. I’m all for marching over to this fake person and giving them the business.
Eolo: Could we… is there something we could shoot?
DM: I mean, there’s a 40-foot-tall ice wolf. You could shoot it. You don’t know what would happen if you shot it. We don’t need to—
Justas: That it’s really there. I mean, that could be anything.
DM: Could be.
Jrain: It hasn’t woken up and actually hurt anybody who tried to go through. Like, just this presence has been enough of a deterrent, right?
DM: It did growl at one of the people who tried to go through. Like, it turned its head and growled.
Ekko: As a cat—when I got close to it—did it notice anything?
DM: Yep. But you were pretty stealthy.
Ekko: Right.
DM: But it did not wake up when Ekko the cat got close to it.
Ekko: And sorry—Ekko’s mentor is where, potentially?
DM: So… you think that you’re in a demiplane that’s echoing the chasm, right? But as far as you know, your mentor is actually in the chasm.
Ekko: That—
DM: Who was investigating whatever strange magic was causing the chasm to start spewing all kinds of… strange things. Right? So all kinds of weird magic started coming out of the chasm—like weird effects. And it’s just… the chasm normally—yes, it’s not like things are normal—but they’re not normally so… normally it’s more in tune with the elements, and it seemed like what was coming out of it was very out of tune, right?
DM: There was, like, these weird… just out of season, and… it made the Vejo Vaikai very nervous. Like, what’s going on here, right? And so this guy—this Eidrikas—one of the sort of elder druids, went into the chasm with one of the monks from the Kemeko, right? One of the kenku, to investigate, right? And they’re apparently still down there, as far as you know.
Ekko: Alright, well—okay. I guess Ekko is more motivated to figure out ways to help his mentor, primarily. But, you know, we’re obviously in a weird little spot right now.
Ekko: I mean, I’m down to attack a nice wolf, if that’s what we want to do.
Jrain: I think we want to charm the pants off this fey lord and get him to change what he’s doing, and put his talents to use solving world peace.
Finnan: Finnan is not convinced that’s gonna work, but—
DM: I mean, it’s kind of like—if—if—Zahara is really the strategist, and you don’t know what to do, let’s go find them.
Finnan: Let’s… let’s just go talk to the fey.
Jrain: Could we stop by Zahara, or somebody, on the way and tell them we’re gonna stir the pot—be ready to… I guess they’re—
Finnan: Will you send Escandar with a message? I’m worried if we go talk to them, we’ll draw attention to their hideout.
DM: Yep.
Justas: Good point, good point. Great story. You could send the message, yeah.
DM: You could send Escandar with a message. What’s the message—“We’re stirring the pot; be ready”?
Jrain: Meh.
Finnan: Yeah—and, you know, make sure that as many people as you can are prepared to go through the portal at short notice.
Justas: Hmm.
DM: Okay?
Finnan: And I’ll tell everybody, and it’s fine. I’ll actually—I’ll switch to comments so we can all talk. I’ll apologize to Escandar, but tell him: if he doesn’t mind us using the privacy of his house for five minutes to plan, we would appreciate it.
DM: He’ll go bring your message and leave you alone. That’s fine. He goes off. He tells you, no, yeah—he’s fine. He says: I don’t know what you’re planning, but… we’ll be ready to run if an opportunity presents.
Finnan: So, Finnan suggests—back in our world, one of the things that happened was some kind of weird rainbow—strange colors that shattered into glass.
DM: Yep.
Finnan: Who’s to say that’s not the same planar disturbance that caused the rainbow, swirly color gash? Or where the ice that froze the rift is not the same planar disturbance that caused the gash to—the ice world here.
Finnan: So why don’t we tell this fey that he’s in danger, and we need ten volunteers to come with us and figure out what’s going on before the whole thing collapses?
Jrain: Or 27? I don’t know.
Finnan: Or if we can pull off 27.
Justas: Sounds like… it’s been a number of skepticism.
Finnan: Think we can get away with.
Ekko: Just so you know, there’s no music, Mike.
Finnan: I mean, as far as we know, nobody knows where we came from.
Jrain: Unless he was watching.
Finnan: Us in the labyrinth, because that’s his, like, only entertainment—his “labyrinth view.” Even that’s hard. As we appeared in the labyrinth—
Jrain: And beat the heck out of everything, yes.
Finnan: Let’s act annoyed that we had to, like, kill this puny beast to get to the real problem.
Jrain: Yep.
Finnan: I’ll look over at Eolo. I’ve only known you—I actually don’t know how long—but I think now’s your moment. Brash overconfidence is what I think we’re going for here.
Eolo: Oh, I’m actually the world’s expert in that.
Finnan: So lead the way. Let’s just march on the palace. We’re here on a mission; we’re asking for his help.
Eolo: Very good. Eolo…
Finnan: Just remember that we’re on a mission, and we’re asking for his help.
Jrain: You can still shoot first.
Finnan: You are not shooting him. That’s all we need to remember. I’m sure there’ll be something to shoot later.
Eolo: Just get us in the door, right?
Finnan: I’ll look at Ekko. Is he gonna keep that straight? Telepathically—not out loud.
Ekko: Is he gonna get— is he gonna do what?
Finnan: Is he gonna keep that straight? Is he gonna shoot somebody?
Ekko: He might shoot somebody, yeah.
Finnan: Okay. I guess we’ll live dangerously.
Jrain: Trompity trumpity.
Finnan: So I’m gonna propose that we try and inconspicuously make it out of this neighborhood so it’s not obvious that we were just in this person’s house, and then just—
Finnan: Although maybe it’s already obvious, because we weren’t inconspicuous walking through the town.
DM: How are you gonna get to the ice palace?
Finnan: Isn’t there a bridge?
DM: No, it vanished. It extended when the troops marched across, but then it vanished again.
Finnan: I’ll just go stand where the bridge appeared and—
DM: I mean, obviously the kenku can fly there.
Finnan: I’ll just use Minor Illusion to create a very loud—
DM: Okay. I mean—so you guys—okay. So you—let’s do this. Let me just tell you… tell me what you’re doing. So you skulk out of the house, and then march. The bridge normally would appear right near where the salmon pond is. So you march back. So tell me what you’re doing.
Finnan: Yeah. March back to where the bridge appears, and then just stand there, obviously, in the open.
DM: So, hold on a sec, Tim. So, kenku—what do you guys do? What is Kate—so what is Jrain doing?
Jrain: Jrain is fluffing up her cloak dramatically and just striding off looking like a warrior. Okay.
Ekko: Her very impressive friends.
Jrain: The halfling, and the actually impressive-looking warrior.
DM: Not—when you say “fluffing up your cloak dramatically,” you don’t mean casting Levitate and getting drifted across. You’re just trying to look dramatic.
Jrain: I’m just trying to look dramatic for now. If we decide that we—if no bridge appears, I reserve the right to Levitate later, but—
DM: What’s Eolo doing?
Eolo: Unfolding his wings confidently. Looking around for something interesting to use in the giant’s quiver to create some magic arrows, to complete the mission, which involves shooting things, probably.
DM: I mean, there are a lot of salmon. There’s water, there’s—
Eolo: Hmm. Stones? There’s—
DM: Lots of things—maybe in the jungle, on the little jungle island. There’s snow and mist and ice. There’s a cattle island with a rope bridge to it.
Eolo: Hmm. Stop.
DM: The huts are mostly stone. There are, of course, four cracks of weird magic in the wall, but that’s about 400 feet away.
Eolo: Hmm. Well, open day for that, but—
Finnan: Wow.
Eolo: —but…
Finnan: What is your quiver, exactly? Can you, like, stick it into the sharp metal one and get weird metallic—plane-of-metal arrows? How does it work? I don’t know.
Eolo: Well, you know, mostly I’ve just, like, put a little glowing ember in there, and then I can shoot a flaming arrow, or a chunk of ice, or stone or something.
DM: It takes a short rest to change it, is the main thing.
Eolo: Yeah.
DM: But whatever you—
Eolo: I’ve never tried—
DM: Eolo just puts things in the quiver, and then the arrows that magically appear in his quiver are somehow related to the thing he puts in it. Like, how does it work? I don’t know.
Eolo: I’ve never tried fish arrows. I like your idea even better. I’ll go try that—just a minute.
DM: So you’re gonna walk over—you’re gonna walk over to the gash that is the metal—the plane of the metal, the weird metal—and what? Try and grab a piece?
Eolo: Yep. This is a good character. I enjoy playing him.
DM: No, it’s not a vortex. You don’t get sucked through if you just stick your hand in.
Justas: It goes away.
DM: Oh—hold on. Where are my dice? Oops. I know you’re a major fan. I’ll just have to roll. I just have to roll on D&D Beyond—one second. Actually, make a Dexterity saving throw.
Eolo: 36— 19.
DM: Okay. You take 18 points of damage as your hand is shredded by—well… so, you can choose. You stick your hand in to try and, like, get something, and sharp blades are basically flying through the air, shredding your hand.
DM: Now—save—so you can either take 18 points of damage and take a piece of the sharp metal with you as you withdraw your hand, or you can take half damage and get nothing.
Eolo: I’m taking the thing.
DM: Okay. So, you stuck your hand into, like, a swirling whirlwind, basically, and these blades—this sharp piece of metal—came flying and kind of started shredding your arm. You pulled it back quite quickly and are left with this weirdly shimmering piece of metal.
DM: It’s hard to know what kind of metal it is. It’s black on one side, a dull coppery green in the middle, and white on the other side, and it’s sharper than almost anything you’ve ever felt before.
Eolo: Finnan, you’re a genius. I drop it in the quiver.
DM: Okay.
Justas: Blood pouring from your hand.
DM: Yeah, exactly.
Jrain: Blood arrows!
Justas: This was a great idea. Don’t—
DM: The wolf’s head turns to look at you. It still looks like it’s ice, but you notice… its eyes open.
Finnan: (Telepathically to Eolo) Just wave at it. Don’t shoot at it.
Eolo: With my crossbow, I assume you mean. I wave with my crossbow.
Justas: I’ll say… to—
Finnan: By the way—
Justas: Tell him to not believe that it’s there and see what happens.
Finnan: Try not believing that it’s there and see what happens.
Eolo: I confidently disbelieve in the world.
DM: Roll—well, actually, what’s your Intelligence?
Eolo: Very high. Like, greatest intelligence of all. I have a 16.
DM: The wolf— I mean… you convince yourself for a second it doesn’t exist, and then you realize you’re being dumb, and it’s really right there.
Eolo: Still there. But it may as well not be.
Finnan: Come back this way so we can go bother this fey dude.
DM: You do need to take a short rest to see what—happens with these arrows.
Eolo: Yep.
Finnan: Yeah, let’s talk to the Frostbinder/Malquin first, and then we can short rest before we do anything else. Unless you want to short rest now, although we’ve already made our scene, so it’s gonna kind of dilute our impact if we stomp around town and then vanish for an hour.
DM: So, hold on. While this is happening, what is Ekko doing? Are you just still a cat?
Ekko: Yeah, I’m still a cat. Just… looking at Eolo with—just—
DM: You could snack again, right? Like, the salmon was really good.
Ekko: Yeah, yeah. I’ll continue eating salmon.
DM: Ed, what’s Justas doing?
Justas: Justas is praying and reconnecting with the kestavo. He’s real unsettled by this turn—
DM: Okay.
Justas: —that it’s not really like kestavo space that we’re in.
DM: And Tim—Finnan was—Finnan was, like, casting some sort of spell?
Finnan: No, I’m just… I’m waiting for everybody. Once we’re all gathered together, I just use Minor Illusion to boost my voice louder.
DM: That’s a—yeah, okay.
DM: So, you know, Eolo comes back after a few minutes with a bleeding hand and this weird piece of metal, which I guess you’ve thrown in your quiver. Nothing’s happened with the bridge, although there’s now maybe about 15 people who have variously stopped to look at you. So there’s a little—nobody’s come close to you, it’s not like there’s a crowd around you, but there’s definitely people looking.
Finnan: I’ll just look over at us and ask if anybody speaks Sylvan.
Ekko: …
DM: I don’t know if you guys all—some of you didn’t really pick languages.
Justas: Probably worse.
Finnan: She doesn’t speak any languages, which is fine.
Eolo: Yeah.
DM: I mean, you don’t have to pick languages. There’s no requirement that you speak lots of different languages, but—
Jrain: I speak Sylvan.
DM: You do. Okay. Jrain speaks Sylvan.
Finnan: Well, then I’ll ask Jrain: would you shout in your loudest, most convincing, and politest voice that we are interplanar travelers come to conference on the planar rifts that are affecting both of our worlds? Please extend the bridge.
Jrain: I say that exactly—in Sylvan—but following Finnan’s intonations and… I’m trying to borrow somebody else’s persuasion, because I’m not very persuasive, but I do speak Sylvan, so I’m saying it.
DM: Okay. After a minute, the bridge extends—or a bridge extends. It’s narrow, right? It’s only, like, maybe six inches or eight inches across. You could walk it, but it’s definitely not two-abreast.
DM: And you see a door on the palace kind of swing open. Like, the front door just kind of swings open, but you don’t hear any response.
Finnan: That’s an invitation.
Jrain: Onward to the door.
