DM: So you… you come across this narrow bridge. It… it takes a certain amount of— I mean, you don't have to… you don't have to roll to cross it, but it certainly takes a certain amount of concentration if you want to— like, you have to carefully step. It's slippery, and it's only about 8 inches across, and, of course, either direction is, like, a plunge down into the labyrinth. So it's a certain amount of… well, the kenku maybe just flap their wings, and a cat… I mean, your cat is, like, whatever, right? This is not a big deal for a cat, but—
Justas: And the half-thing is nimble. It’s… it’s really just me who has a problem.
DM: But, yeah, Kate and Drayton. But you don't really have a problem; it's just distracting, right? Like, it's just—you have to pay attention to foot after foot.
Jrain: I mean, I have a plus 7 to acrobatics. I think I can cross <an arrow>[it no problem|Likely ASR error; context suggests confidence about crossing].
DM: Well, Jrain is like, “I do this in my sleep.” It’s really— no, it’s Justas. Justas is the only one who's distracted. The rest of you are like, “Meh.” Justas is like, “Damn my heavy feet! Damn!” You come across this palace, like I described before. It's, like, large, fancy, but there's these large double doors, right? Made of, like, something dark—some sort of dark metal. And one of them is, like, swung open. And you can see there's, like, a court—like, an inner hall, like, an inner wall… you know, hall, basically, that you can walk into.
Jrain: You're welcome.
Finnan: Walking.
DM: The door slams shut as soon as you walk in. And you see… in front of you, there's, like—it's like an entrance hall. There's a—there's, like, passageways that lead to the left and the right, and then immediately in front of the entrance hall, like, on the other side, there's another sort of double door, which, as the other one slams shut, also swings open. And you can see beyond it, there's, like… it looks like sort of a—not literally a throne room exactly, but kind of a throne room-esque vibe. There's, like, a chair on one end, and… a big open space, but there's nobody in it. There's like a—
Finnan: Forward.
DM: You know, when you cross again, the door behind you slams shut, and you hear a voice behind you, like, speaking… well, you hear it in several languages. I don't know what language everybody speaks, but first in Elvish: “Are you real?” And then in Sylvan, you hear, “Travelers? From the outside?” And then in Common: “Who are you? What are your names? Why are you here?”
Finnan: Shit. Do we see anybody?
DM: Yeah, yeah. I mean, as you turn around, you see the guy—the person I showed you before—appeared, like, as the door slammed shut, like, as you walked forward. Not on the throne: appears behind you and starts, like… It’s almost like a startup, like… appears out of nowhere and, like, shouts, like, “Are you real?” Well, I don't know. Do any of you speak Elvish?
Finnan: I do.
DM: Okay. So you understand the Elvish one: “Are you real?” Jrain would understand the… “Travelers?” And then Common, you know, to all of you: “Who are you? What do you—”
Finnan: There. Finnan will respond in <Elvesh>[Elvish|Likely ASR error].
Finnan: We are real.
DM: “Hold your tongue,” he says. “That is not a language of the real.” In Common.
Jrain: I respond.
DM: It— he points it at <YOLO>[Eolo|Name correction]. “You. Where do you fly to with those wings? There's nowhere to fly. There's no up or down.”
Eolo: Yes there is.
DM: You would deny me?
Eolo: Well, but what's up? I… down… .
Finnan: I will say in Common: Who are you?
DM: “Why do you say that—” He disappears and reappears on the throne and says—
DM: Seeming, like, in a totally different tone of voice—like, a much more kind of regal and melodious… Like, this was—he was talking, like, staticky, like, harsh. Like, in a much more melodious and regal kind of voice, also in Common, from sitting on the throne, says: “You are here… about the cracks… in the wall… In reality, I am Malquin the Vaccar, ruler of this place.”
DM: What do you know?
Finnan: The cracks… well, they're not just… In your dimension, they are… rips between multiple planes.
Finnan: They weren't just your problem.
Finnan: But you seem to have cultivated a very robust culture of… stasis and fear here, so it is difficult to get any useful information about what has happened on this side. So we've come to you. If you want this solved, you'll have to tell us something.
DM: “Solved. Closed? Solved means closed, yes? Healed? Erased?”
Finnan: I mean, the alternative is to be consumed by a giant storm of lightning…
DM: Swirling rainbow metal ice.
Finnan: So… yes?
DM: He disappears and appears standing, like, inches from <Finian>[Finnan|Likely ASR error; same speaker]. “Consumed! Consumed! Consumed? Being consumed by metal ice! I would consume you first. Why dare you say such things like this? Who are you to be speaking of being consumed? Nothing can consume me. I am everything.”
Finnan: That's wonderful to hear. Please then tell us how to stop the cracks. You must be the cracks if you are everything, no?
DM: Everything outside is fake. It's not real on the outside. So I… so I've been told. So… so the whispers say.
Justas: How could it be?
DM: There's nothing beyond the edge. So the cracks must not be real either. It is a trick. A trick of… of me? Am I tricking me? That would not be… that would be cruel.
Finnan: So why do you guard them? Why are they guarded if they are not real?
DM: Duh. My people will vanish into nothing if they go through. It will eat them, consume them, destroy them.
Justas: Where were you before you were here?
DM: Here?
Justas: I am… I've always been here. There's nowhere else.
DM: He vanishes and appears back on the throne.
DM: “I think… what?” he says, again, totally different tone of voice. “How… I would gladly… aid… your attempt to… cleanse these from the world, but I know not what you need.”
Finnan: Some volunteers. People we select to help us on this mission. Surely you can spare a few to save the rest.
DM: Wow. I would need… assurances.
Finnan: What sort of assurances?
DM: He's sort of… he looks like he's… he's sort of thinking for a minute, it seems…
DM: Wow. A few. Is it… how do I know you really came from the outside?
Finnan: I mean, do you want—
Justas: Unshoulders his knapsack and pulls out the severed head of the creature.
DM: He vanishes from the throne and appears standing next to… standing, like… next—like, very, very close to Justas—and grabs—
Finnan: Grabs the, the—
DM: —the creature's head from you, and, like, holds it up, sort of looking at it, like, and says, “My… my other. My… my curse. My… are you— You cannot be.” And he sort of starts grabbing at the… at the base, like, trying to feel, like, “Is it connected to something?” Like, “You cannot be separated. You must come back to us. You must come back to us.” And he sort of takes it, and is, like, sort of staring, like he's almost locked. Like, he seems, like… lost. Like, “You must… you must be…”
DM: And then he sort of… he… he… he drops it and appears back at the throne. Seeming a little bit uncertain—like, he hasn't… seemed to be acknowledging that there's these weird changes coming over him. “You must understand it has been some time since we have any… had any news from the outside. I don't… rightly remember what it… is.”
Finnan: When was the last time you had news?
DM: I don't rightly remember.
Finnan: Why don't you come with us?
DM: I… could… What if it is… I could not.
Finnan: Or not.
DM: He says, “The whispers say I would end. How do I know they are not correct? Ending is the worst of all fates. I could not have that.”
Justas: Could I… I wonder if I could roll an Insight check. I'm… I am trying to discern whether he is under the influence of some magical or other effect external, or whether he has basically just gone mad from being, you know, locked in this micro-realm for a thousand years by himself.
DM: Sure.
Justas: Okay. Here I go.
Justas: That is a 14 plus 6. That's 20 altogether.
Finnan: Oh, wait a minute. <Kong>[Ekko|Likely ASR error; same player later speaks as Ekko]. You have Detect Thoughts.
DM: That would be a useful thing to do.
Finnan: Past— <Passed>[Pause|Likely ASR error; conversational filler].
DM: You're on mute.
DM: You're on mute, <Kong>[Ekko|Likely ASR error], if you're talking.
Ekko: Sorry. I was saying—so I do. Oh, I can also mask my mind; that's useful. Well, I thought I would need that at the moment. Yeah, so let's see… Detect Thoughts. Yeah, cool. Let me do that.
DM: Yeah, you learn what's most on the target's mind. They don't even get a… they don't get a save, I think, unless you try to probe deeper.
Finnan: Right, and once per long rest, you can… you can cast it without using a spell slot or spell components, so it's undetectable.
DM: That's a good idea.
Ekko: All right, I'll do that.
DM: Okay, so… let me get to… let me… So, Justas, your— I mean, you kinda think about how he's acting, and it… it does not— you know, you don't have a… you don't have, like, a deep experience with—well, I don't know, maybe you do have a deep experience with mental illness, actually.
Justas: I think some. Like, I've… I've seen people who are hermits out living in the woods, or people who've been stranded, or isolated, cut off for whole seasons at a time. Like… like, I have some experience with those sort of varieties of things.
DM: It… it doesn't… it doesn't seem like… like, you don't get the sense that his… there's a consistency, in a way. Like, there is this thread of consistency in his speech patterns, although they are… different. Like, it's not, you know, they're a different tonality and stuff like that, but you don't… it doesn't seem like he's, like, possessed or something like that.
Justas: Yeah, yeah.
DM: Right. But, I mean, it's… it's a little bit hard to… to…
Justas: Sure.
DM: …<bike>[parse|Likely ASR error; sentence trails]. But you're casting Detect Thoughts?
Ekko: I am, yeah.
DM: Okay. Right, so—sorry. You cast Detect Thoughts, and I just lost the thread of… what were you just asking him before you— All right, he said, “How do I know?” You had said, “How long? How long have you been here?” And he says, “Well, I don't rightly remember,” right?
Finnan: Right.
DM: I'm sending you a message with his thoughts.
Ekko: <Grip>[Great|Likely ASR error].
DM: So, yes. “I… I don't… I don't rightly remember.”
Finnan: <Ayahu Assem>[I asked him|Likely ASR error; context: correcting DM]. To come with us.
DM: Oh, right, you asked him to—right, and then he said—
Finnan: “But how could I? I—”
DM: I believe that, you know, “How do I know that the outside world is… is real at all?” He was sort of saying not existing is the worst of all fates. Telepathically.
Finnan: Tell Ekko to—or sorry, tell <Yolo>[Eolo|Name correction] to, like, fly up a little bit and show off his wings, and hoping that Eolo does that. I will say, “Of course it's real. Have you seen such creatures in here? Where do you think we came from? We're not figments of your imagination.” I'll hold out my hand. “Grab my hand.”
DM: And—
Finnan: You know, I look up and down, Finnan, like… “You ever seen a person who looks like this before?”
DM: You seem not… unfamiliar, although I cannot say from where.
Finnan: From before you came to this world.
Ekko: Yeah, I'll—just as a quick note, Mike, I'm also going to sense the presence of thoughts within 30 feet of myself.
DM: There's nobody else within 30 feet.
Ekko: Thinking, other than… other than us.
DM: Other than the five of you and… and him. Okay. Now, of course, he says, “The mind plays tricks. Of course you would seem familiar if you were not real. Proof. Proof is what is needed, you see, to solve these dilemmas.”
DM: Perhaps—
Finnan: And what… what would convince you?
DM: Perhaps evidence it was—
DM: —safe to leave. But what would that look like? Perhaps… but… but it seems, I think, he says, that those who go through these cracks have vanished forever.
Finnan: I mean, we'll go through the crack.
Ekko: We'll definitely go through the crack.
Justas: Yeah.
Finnan: You want proof? Send us! Maybe with a few… a few other volunteers. Round up the people you don't like, the ones that you can afford to lose. Let's go through. If we survive, we'll come back and tell you. If we… if we die, then of course we won't come back. What difference does it make to you?
DM: Hmm. You will bring… evidence… That must be—
DM: —a thing…
DM: A thing I give you. Hmm. It's something I must ponder on. Hold on one second; I gotta type something to Connor. Just give me one second.
Ekko: Is there a way for me to communicate what I—what, to you?
Finnan: I will… I'm gonna—
DM: I guess you could just bounce. I guess that's faster. Like, why make this difficult, right? He is—he is—his topmost thought here is, like, honestly trying to think of something that he could send through. That would— that if you brought something… either something that you could bring from the world, or something that you could send through, and then that you would bring back, that would make him believe that the outside world is actually real. “Something… something I could not have invented,” he says.
DM: He then… he then vanishes for a minute. He then… he appears, standing by the door again. Like, disappears and appears standing by the door. “You would steal from me. You would steal—” You can see he's, like… like, glaring. A sword sort of… sort of appears in his hand. “You would— you would steal my very soul? You dare offer such offense, such terror, such horror, such <end this>[endings|Likely ASR error; consistent theme of “ending”]. How dare you steal my very essence like this? I will see you sent away, back to the depths where you have murdered, to be murdered yourself.” He <suggest…>[stops|Likely ASR error; mid-word interruption]—and then, in the middle of his word, he vanishes again and appears back on the throne.
DM: “A thing from the outside world that I could not imagine. What could that be?”
Justas: Justas sighs and begins putting the head of the beast back into his backpack again and shouldering it.
Finnan: You mean something other than a… lying… bird… human.
Ekko: He thinks he invented halflings.
Finnan: I know, but kenku are more—
DM: Kenku are more weird.
Finnan: Weird.
DM: I… he says. “I remember…”
DM: “Moonlight.”
Justas: Moonlight.
DM: “I remember…”
DM: “The stars? There are no stars here. How do I remember such things?”
Finnan: Because you weren't born here.
Jrain: And therefore, you could leave. Safely.
DM: A task, then.
DM: But—he… he… he vanishes for a minute, and again appears standing on the far side of the room. Like, not by the door, but behind the throne, like, in the far corner. And he draws this glittering sword again—like, a glittering sword of ice—and, like, stabs it into the floor, and he just screams, “You will not!” And then he disappears again, and appears back on the throne.
DM: Take— and you sort of—
DM: Take—he… he takes a… takes a, like, a piece of—like, he's wearing a lot of, like, this… like, there's, like, these icy, like, ropes, like, around his neck. He takes, like, a—basically a necklace. And… and tosses it to you. He tosses it towards one of—like, whoever is standing—like, <Finnit>[Finnan|Likely ASR error], I guess. “Take this.”
DM: And… bring it to the knight on the other side. And return it to me.
DM: That will—
DM: But you must. You must promise. The bargain is thus: you've returned this to me, having shown it to the knight. And… if you do not—my… what does he say? You must return it to me; I will let you go. I will let… I will let you go. And you will take this, and you will show it to the knight, and you will return it to me. If you do not, I will… I will curse you, as my people do. You will not know— you know, the cold will follow you everywhere you go, and the ice will haunt you. And he sort of looks… he glances over to where the sword is now stuck in the ice. “My vengeance shall follow you.”
DM: Will you accept this? Can you return with this?
Finnan: I have no idea. We came through once, but we had to fight your beast.
Finnan: I believe we can return. But what if your beast kills us?
DM: Then my beast will bring you my possession—will bring me my possession. It is not my problem.
Finnan: It's kind of your problem.
DM: The— he disappears and appears next to <Finney>[Finnan|Likely ASR error] and says, “I will enjoy it,” in his other sort of gravelly, different voice. “It will be delicious! When you are eaten. All should have been eaten. All of you. Fresh souls for the cycle. Yes, yes. It will be delicious.” He disappears and appears back on the throne again.
Finnan: I'm sorry. You seem to be confused about the nature of bargains. What exactly are we getting out of this?
DM: You may leave. Is that not what you want?
Finnan: That wasn't what we discussed.
DM: He looks confused for a minute.
Finnan: We're trying to solve this interplanar dilemma, not flee this realm.
Finnan: You seem uninterested in preventing the collapse of your realm to some unknown planar forces that have already ripped a hole in it. I mean, that's fine, I guess, if you care so little about the nature… about the existence of your domain. But you are asking us to make a bargain to… prove the outside is real? And come back, and for what?
Finnan: I think you're <aged>[asking|Likely ASR error; “I think you're asking” fits context].
DM: By aid in solving this problem.
Finnan: So, if we bring back proof the outside is real to you, you will also commit… to a bargain. Yes?
DM: <Where do you at?>[What do you want?|Likely ASR error].
Finnan: I want, <Nick>[not|Likely ASR error], a one-sided deal. You will commit to helping—allowing us and your people to solve this problem as they wish, without interference from you, and with as much aid as you can provide.
DM: Allowing—
DM: I cannot allow my people to needlessly risk themselves, although I suppose if the outside is… truly safe.
DM: He's sort of thinking. I mean, his thought—as you are reading his thoughts… oh, actually, you were reading his thoughts. Sorry, let me jump back a sec. You were reading his thoughts when he jumped also. It was just, like… it was clearly— I mean, your sense was similar, but it was, like, a… I mean, it was just really confused, swirling thoughts. Primarily sort of this— but a panic about… the foremost thought you detected when he was, like, when he jumped and was… was threatening Finnan—the saying, “You'll be delicious,” was basically panic at no longer existing.
Ekko: Hmm.
DM: Like… but, like, in the sense of, like, being… <Doc?>[done?|Likely ASR error; unclear], cured is the wrong word, but, like, panic that, like, there's this just this overriding sense of panic. I guess you don't really know what. Like, just this sense of panic and this sense of fear—like, “What is happening to me? This doesn't make it… this is, like, terrible.” Like, “I'm losing…” Like, this sense of, like—no—like, the thoughts were totally jumbled, right? Like, the sense of lack of control and, like—
DM: So, okay. So… and… and a sense of… of, like, growing anger, too.
Ekko: Anger, generally, or anger at us?
DM: Anger… anger at… discussions and talking.
DM: He says, “I would not… wish—” He sort of pauses for a minute. “I would not wish to—” He says again, “impede those who… there is much danger. It is not— but if you can prove, if you… if you bring news of safety elsewhere, I would not wish to impede those who… wish… to take advantage of it. It is—”
DM: So, yes, I can… I could accept that bargain. Proof of the real… If you return—when you return with proof that the outside world is real—I could help you to close this… these cracks and… and… as you see fit, with what aid I can give.
DM: It has been a… endless…
DM: Yes. He stops for a minute. “I will, if you accept, <towel…>[tell|Likely ASR error] my guardian to let you pass.”
Finnan: I'll just, like, telepathically bounce to everybody: What do you think?
Jrain: Yeah, let's get going. Do it. Good deal.
DM: He… he, as… as you're telepathically bouncing—although I guess that doesn't take very long—he disappears from the throne, and he appears by the door, and, like, sort of… <Stan>[stands|Likely ASR error] like—he, he, he, he sort of throws out his arms, like, wide, and the sword comes flying to him. “Insects like you. You shall not—” No, no, no, he says to—he says, he turns and says, “No, no, they are not. They are not here.” And then he turns his head like this and says, “Yes, they are. They are destroying us. They will.” “No, they are not here,” he says. Like, that goes back and forth a couple of times.
Jrain: He not here while he's having that argument?
DM: Well, he's standing in front of the door, although you could just try and walk past him.
Jrain: True.
DM: You start—wait, so—
Jrain: Walking towards the door?
DM: He sort of turns to… he turns again and says, “The outside. Do not. Do not,” he says. “The knight is not real. The knight—I create the knight. It haunts us. It is not real. This is not… it will not—” And he shouts—he sort of turns to himself again, and, like… again, having this argument. As you're coming closer, it's getting louder. And he appears back—all of a sudden, he appears back on the throne. And he says, “You best hurry,” very distinctly.
