Finnan: Let’s just explore down this passage; we’re already here.
Jrain: Alright, fine. Let’s see if there was a better option.
Justas: As if there are no wrong decisions to make.
DM: I’m with you on that.
Finnan: Sure.
DM: You… sorry, I’m just looking for my notes. You… you… as you go down the… I mean, the wind doesn’t… doesn’t let up as you go down this passageway, right? Like, it’s… it’s… the walls feel, like, very close. There’s just wind sort of blowing down. It’s all made of… it’s all made of stone, but you can actually see ice growing, like, as you, like, look… as you’re walking to the left or the right on these stone passageways. You can see, like, this ice just sort of thickening on the… on the stone, and under your feet, too. It’s like… ice is almost starting… as you step, it’s like ice is growing up underneath your foot, making the terrain quite treacherous. So you have to sort of pick your way fairly carefully. Like, I mean, you could try and walk normal, but, like, it almost literally seems like wherever you put your foot down, some ice is growing as you put your foot down underneath your foot as you walk. So it’s… relatively difficult to move down this passageway. And it goes for… maybe… 100 feet, dead straight. And… at the end of… but it’s hard to say exactly. At the end of the 100 feet, there is a… a sharp turn to the left.
DM: And then almost immediately, almost like a U-turn, a sharp turn again. So, like, you turn left, and then left again. Yep.
Finnan: Okay.
DM: And then you go maybe another… 15 feet, and there’s another sharp turn to the left.
Eolo: Hmm.
Finnan: Okay?
DM: Yeah, yeah.
Jrain: Overhanging?
DM: Maybe a little bit down, but you don’t… I mean, it’s really… you’re… it’s hard to tell. And you go another, maybe… 30, 40 feet. And… you come out in a… small… chamber. Like… carved stone, free of ice, very, very… but very, very, very cold, like, almost… frozen. And it’s… it’s, like… maybe… it’s, like, 10, 15 feet across, maybe, and there’s a stone… like… not really a bench, but, like, just, like, a flat spot on the wall, and there’s a corpse, like, sitting on the flat spot, like, its arms, like, frozen into the… into the ice behind you, and its legs, like, frozen. Like, you can see, like, ice surrounding its… its hands and feet, basically, trapping it in place.
Jrain: Is there any other way out of this room, or did we—
DM: Sorry, it keeps… it keeps going. The passageway keeps… it, like, opens up a little bit, but the passageway keeps going on the other side.
Justas: I’ll go over… wait, so there’s a corpse that’s been stuck in ice? That’s been… yeah. Swallowed by ice?
DM: Oh, no, well, its hands and feet. It’s like… spread-eagle against the wall, and its hands and feet have been swelled by ice. It has… it’s not skeletal, right? Like, it still has features. But it has… it has, like… it doesn’t… it has, like, a—I don’t want to say, like, a look of terror on his face exactly, because he can’t… it’s a little bit rotted away, but, like, it doesn’t… it’s, like, mouth… it’s like… it looks like something scared it before it died.
Justas: It has a… it has a… it has a mouth, though.
DM: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Finnan: I won’t.
Eolo: What kind of creature is it?
Justas: I’ll go—
DM: Human.
Finnan: I’ll—
Justas: I mean, it just—
Finnan: I put my hand at Finnan—er, sorry, at Justas. I think I know what you’re gonna do, and I’m gonna pick a scroll out of my—
DM: Writing case.
Finnan: Hold it up, say, “Let me get this one.”
Eolo: I was looking at this—what?
Finnan: And I will open a scroll, and I will read off the spell: Speak with Dead.
DM: Wait, you have a Speak with Dead scroll?
Finnan: I do.
DM: What’s up. Okay. I didn’t… I didn’t realize you kept your scroll. No, that’s fine. That’s a good scroll.
Finnan: It was in my writing case.
Finnan: I’ll speak with dead.
DM: Okay, it… it wakes up. Speak with—
Finnan: Before I cast Speak with Dead, I will ask… well, the spell lasts 10 minutes, so we have time to discuss what questions you want to ask.
DM: You get 3 questions, or 5? I don’t remember how many questions you get.
Justas: Five.
Finnan: Speak with Dead gives you five questions.
DM: Okay.
Ekko: What kind of skeleton is it?
DM: It’s a human… it’s not a skeleton, it’s still fleshy. Oh, okay. Like, it… it… human. Yeah, yeah. I mean, it has… there’s actually… there’s some equipment around. It has, it looks like… he looks like he was a warrior. There’s, like, a shield, a… a bow, a quiver with some arrows, two unlit torches at its feet. It’s wearing… like… marred and cracked, but possibly still salvageable leather armor. There’s two daggers on its belt. All seem relatively intact, like a helm.
Ekko: How long dead?
DM: How would you know?
Ekko: Like, years? Days?
DM: Mm. Does… does Ekko have any way of knowing that? Just… just trying to… I mean, you could make an intelligence check, I guess. Or, if you want.
Jrain: I could ask him.
Ekko: Alright, let’s just talk to them.
Finnan: The first thing I will… I will ask him.
Finnan: I will… I will begin speaking in Old Zimkovan and see if it seems like he understands, but I’m prepared to… switch languages if necessary, although I don’t have that many other great options.
DM: I still don’t understand.
Finnan: Okay. And the first thing I will ask is… where are you from?
Jrain: What terribly dangerous thing killed you that we should know?
Finnan: The next thing I’ll ask—how do you—
Ekko: How about, like, how do we get out of here?
DM: Where are you from?
Finnan: The first thing—
DM: Brendan wants to know, “Where are you from?” Yeah, hold on, did I… I don’t think I… cool.
Ekko: Say a tomato, or you say tomato?
DM: I am surprised I didn’t actually write down the name of where he’s from. Hold on, sorry, give me one second.
DM: Let’s see… Melusa.
Jrain: Excuse me.
Finnan: Okay.
DM: It’s the only place, he says.
Justas: Does that… sorry, does that name ring any bells? What is that?
DM: Melusa? I mean, it sounds Old Zimkovan.
Justas: Cool.
Jrain: Does—
DM: Kalima reacts. Yes, her eyes widen. She… she… she sort of clutches the token that Justas gave her, and sort of steps… steps away from him a little bit, like… she seems a little nervous about the whole talking-to-the-dead thing. Like, it’s clearly not, like, magic she’s used to. But she doesn’t seem… she recognized… she clearly recognized the name Melusa, but none of you have heard of it.
Finnan: Where did you die? Or how did you die? How did you die?
DM: He says—
DM: Fair. The… good. The wind came alive.
DM: I couldn’t… find my way through. I failed. It… it was sharp. Just like you’d think Zeyfa’s minion would be.
Ekko: Who’s the one again?
DM: Zeyfa is… you’re in Zeyfa’s Labyrinth. Zeyfa is, in the mythology of the kestavo, the… the religion is the… the spirit of the cruel west wind. And Zeyfa’s children are, like… cause trouble and have to be placated.
Finnan: Okay. I will turn back to the group and say in Common, in case this person doesn’t understand the question. Or I’ll just say with telepathy, with silent speech to each person in turn: So, my other two questions are… why did you come in here, and do you know how we… er, how do we get out? But I’m taking—if anybody else has suggestions, let me know. We have three more questions. And I will also say the same to Kalima, trying to be reassuring and saying, “It’s okay. I have magic to get stories out of even people who have died.”
DM: Is there anything that we should ask?
Finnan: This person that might help us find our way through the maze? Trying to be as calming as possible, but also telepathically.
Justas: Kalima—
DM: Says to you telepathically—here, I’ll actually tell you what she says. You’re talking to everybody telepathically. Yep.
Justas: Everybody else answered Tim’s question; I’m just typing. Yeah—Justas’s reply: I wonder if we don’t want to know the way out as much as we want to know the way to the center? Or the way to find…
DM: You know, you—
Justas: Whatever it is we need to kill before it will unlock the door out for us.
Finnan: Yeah, maybe “How do we get out?” hopefully covers that, but maybe we should be more specific.
DM: Or… sorry, I mean—
Justas: Sorry, what are we looking for again? What’s the name of the thing?
Finnan: It’s a fire—
Jrain: Minion?
DM: Yeah.
Jrain: So that is minions—that is beast?
Finnan: We find Zeyfa’s minion. Who is Zeyfa’s minion, or how do we find Zeyfa’s minion?
Justas: Something like that, yeah.
Finnan: I’ll ping back to Jrain, Ekko, and Eolo. Any questions to ask the dead corpse?
DM: Sorry, what did you… what did you say to Kalima again? It was just—
Finnan: We, you know, I—
DM: “Have magic to get stories out of even people who have died; don’t be afraid of it.”
Finnan: But we can ask only three more questions, and is there anything that you think would be useful to know? Or is there any question you think we should ask this person?
Justas: Justas also says, “Ask… ask if we have their permission to take their gear with us. Torches, knives—these things could be helpful.”
Jrain: It’s a good use for a last question, if we run out of questions.
DM: Death.
Jrain: If we don’t run out of questions.
Finnan: I’ll wait to see what Kalima says.
Finnan: I will reply—I will send back to everybody in turn. Well, first I’ll ask why—or, sorry—what was it Justas suggested, towards “How do we… who is…”
Justas: How do we find… how do we find the minion? How do we… or how do we find the center?
Jrain: Beast.
Finnan: I think I’ll just ask… “How do we… how do we… or, like, what are we supposed to… how do we escape the labyrinth?” Let’s… if we have to find the center to escape, and he knows that, he should tell us, right?
Jrain: Right. I think I’ll try that. How do we escape the labyrinth?
DM: I died here.
Finnan: He doesn’t know.
DM: If I… if I knew…
DM: The wind took me. Stories do not come out of the labyrinth. No one escapes. It’s not possible.
Finnan: So… how did… why did he come in, possibly? Although Kalima told us last time that people are—every sunset or sunrise, people have to go in, appease… Zeyfa, so maybe that’s not that useful.
Jrain: Yeah, probably just like, it was the day!
Finnan: I don’t know.
Jrain: Of course. Or did he die the first time he saw the thing? Like, did he ever… gather any… was that thing the only thing that ever troubled him? Were there other things that he had survived first?
Finnan: Yeah, maybe.
Finnan: I’ll… I’ll bounce back to Justas and say… Kalima is worried that his soul is cursed and lost. Do you know—
Finnan: I do not think he will know what happened to his soul. But… if you can still reach the kestavo… perhaps there is a… ritual, you can… I’ve seen you passing through the villages before, helping… people guide—
Finnan: helping the kestavo guide people’s souls beyond death.
Justas: Yeah, I’ll… I’ll ask her, Mike. Like, I… I want to try and figure out where he’s from, because, like, I could use the big, sort of generic kestavo, but… if I can figure out where in particular he was from, I’d know the local gods to—
DM: Yeah.
Justas: —to ask for. So, can I talk with her and ask, where is this place? Like, describe the way to get there.
DM: S— to—
Finnan: Probably his time.
DM: You’re asking Kalima how to get to—
Finnan: Melusa.
DM: Yeah.
Justas: Or asking her if she can’t do that, like, who are the kestavo of that place?
DM: They’re… she looks, I mean… they’re lost to us. They’re only stories for us.
Justas: Because they’re so old?
DM: ’Cause… because Zeyfa doesn’t… doesn’t tolerate… others. There’s always a fire. None of the others can… there is only… and… pray to Zeyfa. I do not.
Finnan: Kalima ever tell us where she was from?
Justas: Yeah, I wanna try and, like, triangulate that by… names, or landmarks, or—
Finnan: I’ll ask her as well where she is from. I still have a few minutes left on this spell.
DM: I mean, she… Melusa is only—
Finnan: She is also—
DM: —there are no other… I mean… she looks… she looks, like… sheepish. You don’t get the sense she, like, knows of any other villages. Right. This is, like, the only village. She’s a little… surprised that there’s, like, other people.
Justas: Can she describe, like, what are the mountains that she sees from the village? Like, what is… like, I think Justas knows enough of, like, the—what’s… what can you see when you look out from the village?
DM: The village… our village. It’s… Zeyfa’s. We… we see storms above.
Justas: Yay.
DM: If you look out, it is… it is carved in the… in the ice, on the side of a gray cliff that goes up, higher and higher beyond anything that anybody can see. A river comes crashing down off the cliff and pools, and… goes through the middle of the village, and… then off the other side, down into the depths. We live… in a patch on the side of the cliff. Fish come in the river, and that’s how we eat.
Finnan: Okay. While Justas is talking to Kalima, I am gonna ask my next question, which is going to be… “You are… you are lost, and… you are dead in Zeyfa’s Labyrinth. Is there anything we can do to ease the journey of your soul?”
DM: Huh. Zeyfa…
DM: I mean… I don’t know what he’d—
Finnan: You told me to ask this, Mike, so there’s—
DM: I know, I know, I know, I know, I know. I just… I’m struggling with the metaphysics a little bit. “I feel trapped,” he says. “I… I… I… the walls… of this place. It’s like, as I wander, as I… as I… move, I am still in the maze. I can… it’s like I can almost… see it. I… everywhere I go….” I mean, clearly he… he seems almost like he’s describing a ghost-type experience. “I… I do not know how to get out.”
Justas: Hmm, maybe—
DM: Maybe if you brought some token of mine.
Finnan: That’s what I was suggesting, Ted. Well… okay, I have one more question I’m gonna ask. I can’t think of anything better, so I’m gonna ask—unless somebody has a different suggestion—“Why did you come into the labyrinth?” I’ll send that to everybody telepathically, pause a second for each person to answer, and if I get no response, I will ask: “Why did you come into the lab—”
Eolo: Makes sense.
Justas: Good.
Finnan: Okay.
DM: At sunrise, Zeyfa selects… or the village selects… a sacrifice. It was my turn. My bad luck. I had no choice.
Justas: Hmm.
Finnan: Okay. The body deanimates; his voice goes away. I will suggest that anybody who’s good at gathering and searching look around the body, gather anything useful, and particularly try to find anything that might be… like, any kind of symbol of any kind of kestavo or anything. And while they do that, I am going to use all three charges of my Memory of the Ancestors.
DM: Okay. To roll a 20 on a history check.
Finnan: For which I have +8, so that’s a total of a 28. To search the memory of the halflings who traveled extensively throughout the Western Green Sea prior to the Downfall—any recollection in my ancestral mind of the halflings of the place, Melusa, or any word that might conceivably be… Melusa could have turned into from the sort of ancient village.
DM: Go ahead, Chris.
Justas: I was gonna say, it sounds like… a village in the chasm, right? That the west wind has captured or controlled.
Finnan: But I think it came… I don’t think it originated in the chasm.
Justas: Oh, that it was something before that. Got it, got it.
Eolo: Oh. Weird.
DM: You… search your memory. There’s… I mean, halflings have traveled up and down the Teft, and… there used to be, yes. There used to be, long ago, stories of a cluster—I mean, there was a… there was a… there was a particularly notable, ancient… well, at the time it wasn’t ancient, but a particularly notable shrine to a… to a kestavo, that was the kestavo of a… of a waterfall, on the Teft, right? On the upper Teft. One of the many kestavo who vanished during the down—or who, as far as anybody knows, vanished during the… during the sort of period of disruption between the ancient, ancient days and the… and post-Downfall, when it was sort of more established, who was… was—this… this… kestavo was called Melua, which sounds like… I don’t know, maybe I’m making up… it would be a word that would clearly be related to Melusa, and possibly, like, Melusa probably means “the village of Melua,” or something like that.
Finnan: Right.
DM: I mean, this is not a place that still exists.
Finnan: Are they—
DM: Is it?
Finnan: As far as my… as far as the Memory of the Ancestors is concerned, this is a memory of a village on the Teft, in the upper Teft, so presumably—
DM: Before the Great Chasm existed. Yeah, the memory—correct. The memory is only of the… this pilgrimage is to this notable waterfall.
Finnan: Okay.
DM: Right? But you presumed there was a village there, right? The name… the linguistic pattern would… I mean, there would be a village; it would make sense from the—
Finnan: So, I will tell everybody then… that… there… I will tell everybody this, and, you know, put it to a story, basically: that there used to be… Melusa, this place that they describe, is a… it was probably the village of a particular kestavo that was associated with a waterfall in the Teft that I think comes from before the Great Chasm. And I’ll give Ekko a little nudge, and wake him up, and say: “Do you… do you… are there any stories that you’ve heard from the monastery, or the… I forget the name of your… the group you—Vejo Vaikai. The Vejo Vaikai, about how the Great Chasm formed?”
Ekko: How it formed.
Finnan: Where did it come from?
Ekko: Good question. What’s the canonical belief amongst the Mist Eye?
DM: I think… I think it’s almost like… people don’t really… it’s too mysterious. Like, it’s not really… there’s so many stories, it’s like nobody is really… there’s not really a canonical, like… like, a lot of people think it’s been there forever, right? It came with Taelgar, right? Like, where did anything come from? Right? Some people will say it’s the oldest thing there is, right? It came from wherever… where did the mountains come from? Where did the rivers come from, right? Like, it’s just been here forever. Other people think it’s, like… I mean, the Vejo Vaikai—like, a lot of people think it’s… it’s like a curse, like a wound, like a… like a bad place, right? The Vejo Vaikai are all about, “No, that’s wrong.” It’s… it’s a place of balance and… and sort of—
Ekko: Elemental.
DM: Mysticism, right? And elemental. There’s, like, a strong… I mean, there’s a lot of people who think that there’s portals to various, you know, elemental vortexes in the chasm, and you can get to other planes. The Vejo Vaikai sometimes have to, like… weird scholars come from somewhere far away, like, “We’re investigating, like… how you travel to other planes,” like Seeker probably has come to the chasm. Actually, it’s probably too early for Seeker’s—no, it wouldn’t be. When… when… anyway, somebody like Seeker could possibly be, like, investigating stories of… you can get to the Plane of Air through here, and stuff like that.
Finnan: Yeah. Seeker’s just gonna learn the truth when he becomes a member of the Philosopher’s Guild. Why ask questions anymore?
DM: So… so the stories are kind of… there’s no… there’s no tales amongst the Vejo Vaikai that it was created in some particular—
Finnan: Right.
DM: —from a particular time. Like, the idea of before the chasm is actually a little bit… would be a little bit surprising. I mean, obviously there could… it’s plausible.
Finnan: Right. So I think we should keep moving, because it’s getting cold, but… did anybody search the body while I was doing all this?
DM: Sure.
Jrain: Yeah.
Ekko: Let’s search the body.
DM: I mean, you find, like I said before, there’s two daggers, there’s about… 20 arrows. A bow, although the bow’s not in good shape. Armor—leather armor, a helmet. A battered shield—none of those are in very good shape. Uh… But the daggers and the arrows certainly are. Two torches. A backpack that would… that looks like maybe it used to have some rations or something, but it’s all moldy and… you know, it’s… mostly things are pretty well preserved because it’s cold, but the… the rations don’t seem to have stayed good.
Finnan: I’m taking the two torches.
DM: And there’s also… the only… the only interesting other item is—there’s not hard to find—he’s wearing a necklace with, like, a small… like, a ring. Like, a silver ring. Nothing… no carvings on it, just, like, a plain silver ring around his neck. Like, like a… just a band.
Justas: I’ll take that.
Finnan: Anybody want the daggers, or the— I assume… Jrain is taking the—Jrain is taking the arrows.
Jrain: I would like the arrows.
Eolo: I’ll take the daggers.
DM: Okay.
